Item 3
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS FOR 
JOSEPHINE COUNTY STATE OF OREGON 
In the Matter of Adopting a Supplemental 
 
 
)
Budget and Making Appropriations and Budget   
 
)
Adjustment for the Fiscal Year 2026-2027  
 
 
)
Order No. 2026-048 
WHEREAS, Josephine County is required to supplement the budget for the 2026-2027 fiscal year in order to 
recognize both additional revenue and expenditures, and 
WHEREAS, pursuant to ORS 294.471 (3), following due and proper notice, the Board of County Commissioners 
may adopt a supplemental budget at a regular meeting, and 
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners adopted a budget for the fiscal year 2026-2027 on June 12, 2026, 
and 
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners as the governing body of Josephine County may, in accordance 
with Oregon Revised Statute 294.463 (1), (2), and (3), approve a transfer of an existing appropriation, and 
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners as the governing body of Josephine County may, in accordance 
with Oregon Revised Statute 294.338 (3), appropriate by resolution, unanticipated revenues and expenditures, and  
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that the Josephine County Board of County Commissioners 
hereby adopts the supplemental budget summarized below and makes the appropriations shown in the summary; and 
that the Finance Director is authorized to make the budget adjustments to the 2026-2027 fiscal budget as summarized 
below. 
DONE AND DATED this 2nd day of September 2026 
JOSEPHINE COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS 
_________________________________ 
Ron Smith, Chair 
_________________________________ 
Colene Martin, Vice-Chair 
_________________________________ 
Gary Richardson, Commissioner 
Exhibit A: Summary of Supplemental Budget FY2027 
Exhibit B: Supplemental Budget FY 2027 
Item 4
Order No. 2026-049 
 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR JOSEPHINE COUNTY 
 
STATE OF OREGON 
 
In the Matter of Administrative Policies and 
) 
Procedures for Josephine County for the 
)  
 
ORDER No. 2026-049 
Purpose of Conducting Business on a   
) 
Daily Basis: Personnel Policy Manual  
) 
Revision; Travel 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners previously adopted by Order No. 2024-079; 
In the Matter of Administrative Policies and Procedures for Josephine County for the Purpose of 
Conducting Business on a Daily Basis; Personnel Policy Repeal and Adoption; and 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, per section 1(E) of the Josephine County Personnel Policy Manual, revisions 
shall be conducted in accordance with the County Administrative Policy and Procedure A-01; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners previously revised by Order No. 2026-036; In the 
Matter of Administrative Policies and Procedures for Josephine County for the Purpose of 
Conducting Business on a Daily Basis: Personnel Policy Manual Revision; Travel; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners deems it necessary to revise Article 8, Section 1; 
Travel of the Josephine County Personnel Policy Manual and has reviewed and approved the 
proposed policy; now, therefore 
 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Josephine County Board of Commissioners approves 
and adopts the revised version of Article 8, Section 1; Travel to the Josephine County Personnel 
Policy Manual, as represented in Exhibit 1, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein. All 
other Sections of Article 8 to remain unchanged. 
 
Policy  
Policy Name (Previous) 
Policy Name (New) 
Date Adopted/Last Revised 
Article 8, 
Section 1;  
Travel  
 
Travel 
June 17, 2026 
September 2, 2026 
Effective September 2, 2026 
 
 
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that said revised policy be incorporated into the Josephine 
County Personnel Policy Manual and be distributed to all County Elected Officials, and to all county 
offices, programs and divisions. 
 
 
DONE and DATED this ___ day of September, 2026. 
 
 
  
JOSEPHINE COUNTY 
 
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS 
 
                                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ron Smith, Chair 
 
                                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Colene Martin, Vice-Chair 
 
                                                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gary Richardson, Commissioner 
Item 5A
Exhibit 1 
Order No. 2026-049 
ARTICLE 8 – TRAVEL & REIMBURSEMENT 
Revised 06/17/2026 Board Order No. 2026-036 
It is the policy of Josephine County to encourage training and professional development for the 
beneﬁt of the County. Training and professional development includes, but is not limited to, 
attending and participating in meetings, seminars, conferences, and training courses which are 
directly related to County services and operations, and which serve to assist employees in 
improving their job performance. Employee participation in training or professional development 
shall be subject to prior written approval by the department head. Employee travel time in 
conjunction with training or County business is considered time worked and should be scheduled 
within the employee’s regular workday whenever possible.  
Remote attendance is preferred, if available. Otherwise, travel is addressed as follows: 
SECTION 1 – TRAVEL 
A. IN-STATE TRAVEL 
In-state travel is deﬁned as travel within the State of Oregon. The employee’s supervisor 
or department head must pre-approve all overnight In-state travel by employees 
conducting County business, for any reason. The Finance Director must pre-
approve all overnight In-State Travel by department heads and elected officials.    
Employees, department heads, and elected officials may obtain blanket 
preauthorization from their approval authority to allow travel for speciﬁc meetings, 
trainings or tasks.   
B. OUT OF STATE TRAVEL 
Out-of-state business travel should generally be a rare occasion. All approved and 
authorized out-of-state business travel expenses must have a clear public purpose 
and serve the public interest.  The Finance Director must pre-approve all Out-Of-
State travel by department heads and elected officials. 
Commissioner Travel. Out-of-state travel for County purposes by any County 
Commissioner requires the prior approval of the Board of County 
Commissioners. Before any reservation or travel arrangement is made that will 
encumber the County, including the use of an individual County Commissioners’ 
Purchase Card, prior approval is required by the majority of the Board. 
C. AIR TRAVEL 
Coach class air travel for County business will be an allowable expense. Economy 
plus or business class air travel, or similar upgrades, for County business, will be an 
allowable expense for any direct ﬂight that exceeds three (3) hours in length. First 
class air travel for County business will not be an allowable expense. Airfares to be paid 
by the County must be reasonable, cost effective and take into account the lowest 
available fare, total length of ﬂight, travel plan, number of intermediate stops, etc. 
Costs for non-air travel arrangements shall not exceed the air fare amount the County 
would have paid. 
Exhibit 1 
Order No. 2026-049 
 
D. VEHICLE TRAVEL 
1. Employees operating a motor vehicle for the purpose of county business travel 
are subject to all applicable provisions of Personnel Policy 8.3, Administrative 
Policy E- 11, and the Fleet Safety Program Handbook. 
2. Employees attending the same conference or meeting will be required to travel 
together in a single vehicle, unless the supervisor determines that separate 
travel is appropriate due to county business or the needs of the department. 
Employees who otherwise choose to travel separately may not be reimbursed 
for mileage. 
3. Fleet Assigned Vehicles: If a department has access to a ﬂeet vehicle it is 
generally more economical to use these vehicles for travel. 
4. Rental Vehicles: Where a rental vehicle is determined to be the most economical or 
reasonable means of travel: 
a. The County shall pay for the car rental costs and gasoline expenses. 
b. If more than four employees are traveling to the same event, a larger vehicle 
upgrade may be approved by the Department Head. If for any reason 
employees decide not to travel together, only one vehicle rental will be 
allowed. The department head will decide whether a vehicle upgrade is 
allowed, and which employee will be provided with the rental vehicle. 
5. Personal Vehicles: When an employee is granted permission to use a private 
vehicle for travel, the County will reimburse the employee at the current IRS 
mileage rate. Mileage shall be calculated between the travel destination and the 
employee’s workstation or residence, whichever is less. When an employee 
combines official County travel with holiday, weekend, vacation or other 
personal travel, transportation must be by the employee’s personal vehicle only 
and must be pre- approved as outlined in this policy. Reimbursements will be 
made only for those costs necessary for the County's business portion of the 
trip. 
a. Mileage reimbursement shall not be paid unless the requesting employee 
has an acceptable driving record and has provided documentation of valid 
vehicle insurance. 
6. Transportation costs chargeable to the County must be for the most direct route 
reasonably available. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Order No. 2026-050 
 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR JOSEPHINE COUNTY 
 
STATE OF OREGON 
 
In the Matter of Administrative Policies and ) 
Procedures for Josephine County for the 
)  
 
ORDER No. 2026-050 
Purpose of Conducting Business on a  
) 
Daily Basis: Personnel Policy Manual 
) 
Revision; Hiring. 
 
 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners previously adopted by Order No. 2024-
079; In the Matter of Administrative Policies and Procedures for Josephine County for the 
Purpose of Conducting Business on a Daily Basis; Personnel Policy Repeal and Adoption; and 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, per Section 1(E) of the Josephine County Personnel Policy Manual, 
revisions shall be conducted in accordance with the County Administrative Policy and 
Procedure A-01; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners deems it necessary to revise Article 4, Section 
1; Hiring of the Josephine County Personnel Policy Manual and has reviewed and approved the 
proposed policy; now, therefore 
 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the Josephine County Board of Commissioners 
approves and adopts the revised version of Article 4, Section 1; Hiring to the Josephine County 
Personnel Policy Manual, as represented in Exhibit 1, which is attached hereto and incorporated 
herein. All other Sections of Article 4, to remain unchanged. 
 
Policy  
Policy Name (Previous) 
Policy Name (New) 
Date Adopted/Last 
Revised 
Article 4, 
Section 1 
Hiring 
 
Hiring 
September 2, 2026 
Effective September 2, 2026 
 
 
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that said revised policy be incorporated into the Josephine 
County Personnel Policy Manual and be distributed to all County Elected Officials, and to all 
county offices, programs and divisions. 
 
 
DONE and DATED this ___ day of September, 2026. 
 
 
  
JOSEPHINE COUNTY 
 
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS 
 
                                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ron Smith, Chair 
 
                                                                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Colene Martin, Vice-Chair 
 
                                                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gary Richardson, Commissioner 
Item 5B
Exhibit 1 
Order No. 2026-050 
ARTICLE 4 – HIRING, TRAINING, PERFORMANCE, & 
SEPARATION 
SECTION 1 – HIRING 
A. EMPLOYMENT APPLICATION 
In order to collect pertinent information regarding applicants for county 
positions, all persons seeking employment with the County, and all employees 
applying for a different position within the County, shall complete an official 
employment application. The Human Resources Office shall be responsible for 
collecting, distributing and retaining all employment applications. 
B. VETERANS PREFERENCE 
As a public employer, Josephine County provides hiring and promotion 
preference for veterans and disabled veterans pursuant to Oregon Law. 
C. HIRING 
1. General Policy 
Josephine County Human Resources shall develop and implement 
standardized hiring procedures. Human Resources shall oversee the hiring 
process to ensure that, at a minimum, the following standards are met: 
 
a. Internal position vacancies shall be posted by Human Resources for a 
minimum of seven (7) days. External postings shall be utilized as needed and 
appropriate to ensure solicitation of the best qualified pool of candidates. 
Vacancies, or upcoming vacancies, for non-interim department head and 
director positions must be posted externally. External postings for department 
heads and directors shall be advertised nationally, or otherwise to the widest 
extent practicable.  
b. Departmental screening and applicant ranking shall be in accordance with 
statutory veteran preference requirements. 
c. Standardized and non-discriminatory interviewing techniques shall be 
used. 
d. Reference checks, detailed background and criminal records checks, 
credential verification, and drug testing shall be conducted on all 
department heads and directors prior to being hired or promoted into the 
position, and as otherwise required and designated by the Human 
Resources Director or the Board of Commissioners. 
e. Verification of other position specific requirements, such as safe driving 
record and physical fitness assessments shall be conducted as 
Exhibit 1 
Order No. 2026-050 
necessary. 
f. In accordance with ORS 659A.330 the County will not require access 
to social media accounts in the review or selection process when hiring. 
 
 
2. Policy Implementation 
Department heads are responsible for complying with hiring procedures 
established by Human Resources, as all employees are employed by the 
County and not an individual department. 
D. POSITION DESCRIPTIONS 
It is the policy of Josephine County to maintain a uniform system for 
establishment, review and maintenance of position descriptions. Position 
descriptions establish the classification, exempt status, union designation, 
minimum requirements, and essential duties for each position within the County 
and are approved by the Board of County Commissioners. Position descriptions 
form the basis for recruiting and hiring qualified individuals, training new 
employees, and conducting annual performance evaluations. Human Resources 
shall maintain all active position descriptions using a standardized format. 
Departments are not authorized to change or convert job descriptions in any 
way. 
 
 
 
 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR  
JOSEPHINE COUNTY, STATE OF OREGON 
 
In the Matter of Uniform Procedure for Setting Fees Charged 
) 
by County and Setting a Public Hearing:   
 
 
) 
Order No. 2026 - 047 
Fees Charges for the District Attorney  
 
 
) 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, at the May 16, 2000 election, the voters of Josephine County approved County Measure 17.73 
(Board of County Commissioners Order 2000-25 dated March 13, 2000) establishing a uniform procedure for 
setting fees charged by Josephine County in compliance with the Josephine County Charter; and 
WHEREAS, said procedure requires that the Board of Commissioners set a time and place for a hearing to allow 
public comment prior to the establishment or increase of any fee charged by Josephine County for any product, 
service, license or permit, except where provided by federal or state law, rule, or regulation; now, therefore, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED as follows: 
1)  A public hearing shall be held on Wednesday, September 16, 2026 at the hour of 9:00 a.m. in the Anne 
Basker Auditorium, Courthouse Annex, in Grants Pass, Oregon.  
2)  Notice of said hearing shall be published two times in the Daily Courier not less than three days, nor more 
than 30 days, prior to the date set for hearing. 
3)  At the time set for public hearing the Board of Commissioners will allow public comment, both in favor of 
and in opposition to fee change proposals (attached hereto) for the following county programs: 
a) District Attorney – Assorted Fees 
 
4)  The cost of the proposed fees shall be calculated to cover the cost of providing the products, services, and 
administration of any program directly related to such fees. 
5)  No fee established or increased hereunder shall be effective until 30 days following adoption by Order of 
the Board of County Commissioners. 
DATED this 2nd day of September 2026 
JOSEPHINE COUNTY  
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS 
 
 
                                           
  
Ron Smith, Chair       
        
 
 
                                           
  
Colene Martin, Vice Chair 
 
 
                                         
  
Gary Richardson, Commissioner 
Item 5C