BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR JOSEPHINE COUNTY
STATE OF OREGON
In the Matter of 
)
Fair Housing in Josephine County
)
Resolution No. 2026-037
LET IT BE KNOWN TO ALL PERSONS of Josephine County that discrimination in the sale, 
rental, lease, advertising of sale, rental or lease, financing of housing or land to be used for the 
construction of housing, or in the provision of brokerage or rental services because of race, color, religion, 
sex, disability (physical or mental), familial status (children) or national origin is prohibited by Title VIII of 
the federal Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988. It is the policy of Josephine County to support the Fair 
Housing Amendments Act of 1988 and to implement a Fair Housing Program to ensure equal opportunity 
in housing for all persons regardless of race, color, religion, sex, disability (physical and mental), familial 
status (1. children, and 2. actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its 
members) or national origin. Therefore, the Josephine County Board of Commissioners does hereby pass 
the following Resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED that within the resources available to Josephine County through city, county, 
state, federal and community volunteer sources, Josephine County will assist all persons who feel they 
have been discriminated against because of race, color, religion, sex, disability (physical and mental), 
familial status (children) or national origin in the process of filing a complaint with the Oregon Civil 
Rights Division or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Seattle Regional Office 
Compliance Division, that they may seek equity under federal and state laws.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the County shall publicize this Resolution and through this 
publicity shall cause real estate brokers and sellers, private home sellers, rental owners, rental property 
managers, real estate and rental advertisers, lenders, builders, developers, home buyers and home or 
apartment renters to become aware of their respective responsibilities and rights under the Fair Housing 
Amendments Act of 1988 and any applicable state or local laws or ordinances.
THE FAIR HOUSING PROGRAM, for the purpose of informing those affected of their respective 
responsibilities and rights concerning Fair Housing law and complaint procedures, will at a minimum 
include, but not be limited to: 1) the printing, publicizing and distribution of this Resolution; 2) the 
distribution of posters, flyers, pamphlets and other applicable Fair Housing information provided by local, 
state and federal sources, through local media of community contacts; and 3) the publicizing of locations 
where assistance will be provided to those seeking to file a discrimination complaint. 
DATED THIS _____ day of October, 2026.
JOSEPHINE COUNTY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
_____________________________________
Ron Smith, Chair
_____________________________________
Colene Martin, Vice Chair
_____________________________________
Gary Richardson, Commissioner
Item 2a1
OMB No. 1121-0329 
Approval Expires 02/28/2027 
 
 
 
OJJDP FY 2026 Community 
and Schools Youth Drug 
Prevention Program 
Grants.gov Funding Opportunity Number: O-OJJDP-2026-172734
Application Deadlines in Eastern Time (ET): 
1. Complete SF-424 and submit in Grants.gov: October 29, 2026, by 11:59 p.m. ET 
2. Submit full application in JustGrants: November 5, 2026, by 8:59 p.m. ET 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2c1
OJJDP FY 2026 Community and Schools Youth Drug Prevention Program 
U.S. Department of Justice | Office of Justice Programs | Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention | 2 
Contents 
1. Basic Information ......................................................... 3 
2. Eligibility ........................................................................ 4 
3. Program Description .................................................... 5 
4. Application Contents and Format ............................... 7 
5. Submission Requirements and Deadlines ................. 11 
6. Application Review Information ................................. 11 
7. Award Notices .............................................................. 11 
8. Post-Award Requirements & Administration ............. 11 
9. Questions? .................................................................. 12 
 
 
OJJDP FY 2026 Community and Schools Youth Drug Prevention Program 
U.S. Department of Justice | Office of Justice Programs | Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention | 3 
1. BASIC INFORMATION  
Purpose of the Funding 
The Office of Justice Programs (OJP) is committed to advancing work that furthers the 
U.S. Department of Justice’s (DOJ) mission to keep our country safe and secure and 
uphold the rule of law and protect the rights of American citizens. OJP provides federal 
leadership, funding, and other critical resources to directly support law enforcement, 
combat violent crime, protect American children, provide services to American crime 
victims, and address public safety challenges, including human trafficking and the opioid 
crisis. 
This is a notice of funding opportunity (NOFO) for the OJJDP FY 2026 Community and 
Schools Youth Drug Prevention Program. This opportunity supports states, units of 
local government, federally recognized Native American Tribal governments and 
nonprofit organizations to deliver substance use prevention programs for youth in 
schools and extracurricular settings in coordination with law enforcement and 
community coalitions. This includes building community-based capacity and 
implementing a continuum of prevention strategies that address youth substance use, 
such as education, early intervention, mentoring, referral to treatment, and 
investigations in coordination with local law enforcement and community coalitions. 
Funds will support activities that include but are not limited to the following: 
• Designing and implementing comprehensive prevention programs for students 
from preschool through grade 12, including prevention education, early 
identification and intervention, mentoring, and referral to treatment services. 
• Designing and implementing family engagement strategies to provide parents 
and caregivers with tools and approaches to prevent or address youth substance 
use. 
• Offering training for school personnel, parents, law enforcement, and community 
members to strengthen coordinated prevention efforts. 
• Supporting local law enforcement and community partners to establish and 
maintain “safe zones of passage” to ensure students can travel safely to and 
from school and activities. 
See the Eligible Applicants section for eligibility details.  
 
OJJDP FY 2026 Community and Schools Youth Drug Prevention Program 
U.S. Department of Justice | Office of Justice Programs | Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention | 4 
Funding Details 
Announcement Type 
Initial  
Assistance Listing Number 
16.838 
Statutory Authority 
Department of Justice Appropriations Act, 
2026, Public Law No. 119-74, 140 Stat. 5, 32-
33 
Grants.gov Opportunity Number 
O-OJJDP-2026-172734 
Expected Total Amount of Funding 
$12,000,000 
Anticipated Number of Awards  
16 
Award Type(s) 
Grant 
Anticipated Award Amount 
Up to $750,000 
Expected Award Period(s) 
36 months starting on January 1, 2027 
 
Key Dates and Times 
NOFO Release Date 
September 21, 2026 
SAM.gov Registration/Renewal 
Begin the process by September 29, 2026, 
and no later than October 15, 2026 
Step 1: Grants.gov Deadline 
11:59 p.m. ET on October 29, 2026 
Step 2: JustGrants Deadline 
8:59 p.m. ET on November 5, 2026 
 
See Questions? at the end of this NOFO for agency contact information. 
2. ELIGIBILITY 
Eligible Applicants 
The types of entities that are eligible to apply are: 
Government Entities  
• State governments  
• County governments  
• City or township governments  
• Native American Tribal governments (federally recognized)  
Nonprofit Organizations 
• Nonprofits having a 501(c)(3) status with the Internal Revenue Service 
(IRS), other than institutions of higher education 
OJJDP FY 2026 Community and Schools Youth Drug Prevention Program 
U.S. Department of Justice | Office of Justice Programs | Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention | 5 
• Nonprofits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than 
institutions of higher education 
Other 
• Other Units of Local Government 
For the purposes of this notice of funding opportunity, other units of local 
government include towns, boroughs, parishes, villages, or other general 
purpose political subdivisions of a state. 
Cost Sharing (Match) Requirement: This NOFO does not require cost sharing 
(match).  
Limit on Number of Applications: An applicant may submit more than one application 
if each application proposes a different project in response to the NOFO. Also, an entity 
may be proposed as a subrecipient in more than one application. 
If a project will be carried out by two or more entities (project partners), only one 
entity may submit the application. The other entities (project partners) must be 
proposed as subrecipients rather than co-applicants. An entity may be proposed 
as a subrecipient in more than one application. For additional information 
regarding subawards, see the Application Resource Guide. 
3. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION 
Statutory Authority  
Department of Justice Appropriations Act, 2026, Public Law No. 119-74, 140 Stat. 
5, 32-33  
Agency Funding Priorities 
To help meet its mission, OJP may give priority consideration to applications proposing 
(as applicable within the scope of this NOFO) projects designed to advance the goals 
listed below: 
(a) Directly supporting law enforcement operations (including immigration law 
enforcement operations); 
(b) Combatting violent crime; 
(c) Supporting services to American citizens;   
(d) Protecting American children; and 
(e) Supporting American victims of trafficking and sexual assault. 
Note: Addressing these priorities is one of many factors that OJP considers in making 
funding decisions. Receiving priority consideration does not guarantee funding. 
Unallowable Activities: The following are certain unallowable costs and certain 
activities that are out of the program scope and will not be funded. 
OJJDP FY 2026 Community and Schools Youth Drug Prevention Program 
U.S. Department of Justice | Office of Justice Programs | Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention | 6 
1. Out of program scope is any program or activity, at any tier that, directly or 
indirectly, violates (or promotes or facilitates the violation of) federal 
immigration law (including 8 U.S.C. § 1373) or impedes or hinders the 
enforcement of federal immigration law—including by failing to comply 
with 8 U.S.C. § 1373, give access to DHS agents, or honor DHS requests 
and provide requested notice to DHS agents.  
2. Out of program scope is any program or activity, at any tier that violates 
any applicable Federal civil rights or nondiscrimination law. This includes 
violations that (1) indirectly violate the law, including by promoting or 
facilitating violations; or (2) unlawfully favor individuals in any race or 
protected group, including on a majority or minority, or privileged or 
unprivileged, basis, within a given area, population, or sector. 
3. As specified in the DOJ Grants Financial Guide, in Chapter 3.13 
“Unallowable Costs” (“Legal Services for Aliens”), any obligations of funds, 
at any tier, under this award to provide (or to support the provision of) legal 
services to any removable alien or any alien otherwise unlawfully present 
in the United States shall be unallowable costs for purposes any award 
made under this notice, but the foregoing shall not be understood to apply: 
(1) to legal services to obtain protection orders for victims of crime; or (2) 
to immigration-related legal services that may be expressly authorized or 
required by any law, or any judicial ruling, governing or applicable to the 
award.  
Goals and Objectives of This Funding Opportunity 
Goal: Support new or enhance existing comprehensive drug prevention and 
intervention programs targeting youth in school and extracurricular settings. 
• Objective: Deliver substance use prevention and intervention 
programming in schools and extracurricular settings through coordination 
with local law enforcement and community coalitions. Approaches may 
include investigations, substance use treatment and/or referral services, 
and substance use education. 
Expected Outcomes 
OJP expects recipients to submit deliverables and performance reports, as described 
below. Read the Application Resource Guide for more information. OJP will measure 
success by reviewing a recipient’s submission of performance reports and data and the 
extent to which project implementation reflects progress toward the goals and objectives 
of this NOFO. 
Deliverables 
Recipients do not need to submit any deliverables other than the standard items in the 
Post-Award Requirements and Administration section. 
OJJDP FY 2026 Community and Schools Youth Drug Prevention Program 
U.S. Department of Justice | Office of Justice Programs | Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention | 7 
Performance Reports 
OJP requires recipients to submit regular performance reports that communicate 
progress toward achieving Program Goals and Objectives. Read information on 
performance reporting.  
Award recipients will receive further guidance on post award reporting requirements. 
4. APPLICATION CONTENTS AND FORMAT 
Application Contents List 
OJP will only consider applications that contain all required parts, which are marked 
*Required* below. Refer to the DOJ Grant Application Submission Checklist for 
application instructions. 
Application Item  
Submission Type 
Step 1: Grants.gov 
 
Application for Federal Assistance: SF-424 *Required* 
Online Form 
Step 2: JustGrants 
 
Standard Applicant Information *Required* 
Online Form 
Proposal Abstract 
Text Box 
Data Requested With Application 
• Financial Management and System of Internal 
Controls Questionnaire (including Applicant 
Disclosure of High-Risk Status) 
• Agency Funding Priorities Inventory 
• Proposal Questionnaire *Required* 
Online Form 
Budget *Required*  
Online Form 
Other Budget/Financial Attachments 
• Indirect Cost Rate Agreement (if applicable) 
• Consultant Rate (if applicable) 
• Limitation on Use of Award Funds for Employee 
Compensation for Awards Over $250,000; Waiver (if 
applicable) 
Attachment 
OJJDP FY 2026 Community and Schools Youth Drug Prevention Program 
U.S. Department of Justice | Office of Justice Programs | Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention | 8 
• Disclosure of Process Related to Executive 
Compensation (if applicable) 
Additional Application Components 
• Timeline 
Attachment 
 
In addition to the items marked *Required* in the table above, the following are 
considered basic minimum requirement elements that are considered in the 
responsiveness review: 
• The application is submitted by an eligible applicant.  
• The requested award amount does not exceed the award ceiling.  
• The application is responsive to the scope of the NOFO. 
Standard Applicant Information *Required* 
Review and edit as needed the information imported from the SF-424 submitted in 
Grants.gov. Add ZIP codes for areas affected by the project. 
Proposal Abstract 
In JustGrants, enter a proposal abstract (limited to 2,000 characters) summarizing the 
proposed project. As abstracts for funded projects are public, do not include any 
personally identifying information (e.g., staff names). The abstract should include the 
following information: 
• The name of the applicant’s proposed project. 
• The purpose of the proposed project (i.e., what the project will do and why 
it is necessary). 
• Where the project will take place (i.e., the service area, if applicable). 
• Who will be served by the project (i.e., who will be helped or have their 
needs addressed by the project). 
• What activities will be carried out to complete the project. 
• The subrecipient(s)/partner organizations or entities, if known. 
• Deliverables and expected outcomes (i.e., what the project will achieve). 
View an example of a proposal abstract. 
Data Requested With Application  
Financial Management and System of Internal Controls Questionnaire (including 
Applicant Disclosure of High-Risk Status) 
Review information on this questionnaire. 
Agency Funding Priorities Inventory 
Applicants seeking priority consideration under the Agency Funding Priorities section 
should answer the inventory questions in their entirety in the web-based form in 
JustGrants. 
OJJDP FY 2026 Community and Schools Youth Drug Prevention Program 
U.S. Department of Justice | Office of Justice Programs | Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention | 9 
Proposal Questionnaire *Required* 
Complete the Proposal Questionnaire in JustGrants. The response to each 
question should be no more than 1 – 2 paragraphs. The questions are: 
•
Description of the Need (5% of application score):
o
What is the need, gap, or issue to be addressed by the proposed
project?
o
What supporting information, data, or evidence demonstrates the
need’s existence, size, and impact on the target population and
community?
o
How does the need relate to the purpose of the NOFO?
•
Project Goals and Objectives (15% of application score):
o
What are the project goals (goals are broad, visionary statements
on what you hope to accomplish)?
o
What are the project objectives (objectives are specific outcomes
you plan to achieve through project activities)?
o
How do your project goals and objectives relate to the goals and
objectives of the funding opportunity?
•
Project Design and Implementation (35% of application score):
o
What activities will you conduct to achieve the proposed goals and
objectives?
o
How will you deliver or complete those activities?
o
When will the activities take place?
o
Who in your organization will staff the activities, including key staff?
o
Who will participate in and benefit from the activity?
o
What deliverables, reports, and other items will be produced as part
of the project?
o
If you plan to use subrecipients to help conduct the project, please
name them (if they are known) or describe how you will identify
them. What will be their role in conducting project activities?
•
Capabilities and Competencies (30% of application score):
o
What is your capacity to deliver the proposed project and meet the
post-award requirements, if funded?
o
What projects or activities has your organization conducted, or is
currently conducting, that demonstrate your ability to undertake the
proposed project activities?
o
What is the relevant experience of team members with key
responsibilities for implementing the project?
OJJDP FY 2026 Community and Schools Youth Drug Prevention Program 
U.S. Department of Justice | Office of Justice Programs | Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention | 10 
•
Note on Project Evaluations: An applicant that proposes to use award 
funds to conduct project evaluations must follow the guidance on project 
evaluations.
Budget and Associated Documentation 
Budget (15%) *Required*  
Use the Budget Detail Worksheet (Web-Based Form) to submit the budget. Read 
information on budget preparation and JustGrants Application Submission Training. 
• List each cost needed to implement the project under the appropriate cost
category.
• Clearly name and describe each cost.
• Show the computation of each cost (e.g., cost per unit, number of units, and total
cost).
• Enter narrative, as needed, to explain the cost calculations and connection to your
project goals, objectives, and activities.
• Include only costs that are reasonable, allocable, and necessary to implement the
project. They must be allowable under the funding statute and agency
requirements.1
Budget/Financial Attachments 
•
Indirect Cost Rate Agreement (if applicable): If the budget includes indirect
costs calculated using a current, federally approved indirect cost rate, upload
your indirect cost rate agreement. Read information about indirect costs.
•
Consultant Rate (if applicable): Read information on limits to consultant rates
and whether you need to request approval to exceed those limits.
•
Limitation on Use of Award Funds for Employee Compensation for Awards
Over $250,000; Waiver (if applicable): Read information on this limitation and
to determine whether you need to submit a waiver.
•
Disclosure of Process Related to Executive Compensation (if applicable):
An applicant that is a nonprofit organization may be required to make certain
disclosures relating to the processes it uses to determine the compensation of its
officers, directors, trustees, and key employees. Read information about this
disclosure and documentation to upload.
Additional Application Components 
Attach these in JustGrants: 
1 See 2 C.F.R. Part 200, Subpart E and the DOJ Grants Financial Guide. Read 
information on unallowable costs that apply to all funding opportunities. 
OJJDP FY 2026 Community and Schools Youth Drug Prevention Program 
U.S. Department of Justice | Office of Justice Programs | Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention | 11 
• Timeline: Provide a timeline that details the Program Implementation Schedule, 
consisting of a 6-month planning phase after the initial award and a 1-year 
implementation phase thereafter. 
Disclosures and Assurances 
Read the disclosures and assurances and complete them in JustGrants: 
• Disclosure of Lobbying Activities 
• Disclosure of Duplication in Cost Items (if applicable) 
• DOJ Certified Standard Assurances 
• DOJ Certifications 
• Applicant Disclosure and Justification – DOJ High-Risk Grantees (if applicable) 
5. SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND DEADLINES 
The DOJ Grant Application Submission Checklist provides instructions for how to submit 
you application by the deadlines. Executive Order (E.O.) 12372 (Intergovernmental 
Review of Federal Programs) does not apply to this funding opportunity: read the 
Application Resource Guide for details. Read OJP’s policy for applicants to request late 
submission due to technical difficulties, severe weather, or natural or manmade 
disasters. 
6. APPLICATION REVIEW INFORMATION 
The Application Resource Guide explains the responsiveness review, review criteria, 
and review and selection process, including risk review, and deciding official. Refer to 
the Application Contents List for all required application components and other basic 
minimum requirement elements that are considered in the responsiveness review. The 
Proposal Questionnaire and Budget sections of this NOFO indicates the weight of 
technical review criteria.     
7. AWARD NOTICES 
Read about the award notification process. 
8. POST-AWARD REQUIREMENTS & ADMINISTRATION 
Read the Application Resource Guide for more information about standard award terms 
and conditions, administrative and national policy requirements, and post-award 
reporting requirements.  
OJJDP FY 2026 Community and Schools Youth Drug Prevention Program 
U.S. Department of Justice | Office of Justice Programs | Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention | 12 
9. QUESTIONS? 
NOFO Contact 
Name: OJP Response Center 
Phone: 800-851-3420 or 202-353-5556 (TTY for hearing-
impaired callers only) 
Email: OJP.ResponseCenter@usdoj.gov 
Hours: 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. ET, Monday–Friday 
SAM.gov Help Desk 
Website: sam.gov/help  
Hours: 8 a.m.–8 p.m. ET, Monday–Friday (closed federal 
holidays) 
Grants.gov Help Desk 
Phone: 800-518-4726 
Email: support@grants.gov 
Website: grants.gov/support  
Hours: 24 hours a day, 7 days a week (closed federal 
holidays) 
JustGrants Help Desk  
Phone: 833-872-5175 
Email: JustGrants.Support@usdoj.gov  
Hours: 7:00 a.m.–9:00 p.m. ET, Monday–Friday and 9:00 
a.m.–5:00 p.m. ET on Saturday, Sunday, and federal 
holidays. 
 
Item 2d1
Item 2d2