APPROVED ON JULY 15, 2026  
BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS 
AT THE WEEKLY BUSINESS SESSION 
 
Open Session: July 8, 2026 
3:30 p.m. – Board of Commissioners Conference Room  
Commissioners Ron A. Smith, Colene M. Martin, and Gary L. Richardson; Nikole Guzman, Recorder 
 
Chair Ron Smith. called the joint meeting to order at 3:30 p.m. 
 
1. Open Session 
a. Consider the dismissal or discipline of, or to hear complaints or charges brought against a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual agent who does not request an open hearing. 
b. Conduct deliberations with the County's designated representative regarding labor negotiations. 
 
The Board convened in Open Session to consider the dismissal or discipline of, or to hear complaints or 
charges brought against a public officer, employee, staff member or individual agent who does not request an 
open hearing: Human Resources Director– ORS 192.660(2)(b). 
 
Chair Ron Smith called for Executive Session at 3:31 p.m. Minutes filed separately. 
Additional Attendees Item 2a: Sean Ray, Esq., Matt Eide, Finance Director, Chrisy Ewald with the Daily 
Courier, Dave Daniel, Sheriff. 
2. Executive Session 
a. Executive to consider the dismissal or discipline of, or to hear complaints or charges brought against 
a public officer, employee, staff member or individual agent who does not request an open hearing: 
Human Resources Director– ORS 192.660(2)(b)  
 
Additional Attendees for Item 2b: Natalie Eckhardt Doupe, Interim-Human Resources Director, Matt Eide, 
Finance Director, Chrisy Ewald with the Daily Courier, Dave Daniel, Sheriff, Aurora Frost, Sheriff’s 
Department, Rob Brandes, Public Works 
b. Executive Session pursuant to conduct deliberations with the County's designated representative 
regarding labor negotiations. ORS 192.660(2)(d) 
 
Executive Session adjourned at 4:48 p.m. 
 
3. Open Session Cont’d 
a. Consideration and decision regarding the dismissal or discipline of, or to hear complaints or charges 
brought against a public officer, employee, staff member or individual agent. 
b. Conduct deliberations with the County's designated representative regarding labor negotiations. 
 
Prior to the vote, Commissioner Richardson stated that the recommendation was not based upon malicious 
conduct or intentional wrongdoing but rather upon the level of skill and expertise required to effectively 
administer the Human Resources Department. Commissioner Martin concurred, noting that the 
recommendation reflected the County's operational needs and the level of experience required by the position  
 
Commissioner Richardson made a motion to terminate Michelle Shaw from the Human Resource Director 
position. Seconded by Commissioner Martin. Roll Call Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner 
Martin – yes, and Commissioner Smith – abstained. Motion carried 2-0.  
 
The meeting adjourned at 4:51 p.m.