APPROVED ON MARCH 11, 2026  
BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS 
AT THE WEEKLY BUSINESS SESSION 
 
County Administration Workshop: March 3, 2026 
1:30 p.m. – Board of Commissioners Conference Room 
Attending: Commissioners Ron Smith; Colene Martin; Gary Richardson; and Kassie Austin, Recorder 
 
Chair Ron Smith called the meeting to order at 1:30 p.m. 
 
1. Declaration of Potential Conflicts of Interest 
Each Commissioner present reviewed the agenda. Commissioner Martin explained that she has a family member 
that works at Evergreen bank. Commissioner Smith and Commissioner Richardson did not find any conflicts of 
interest on today’s agenda.  
2. Department Business 
a. Legal Counsel  
1. Potential Purchase and Sale Agreement – Dimmick Campus 
Helene Lulich, County Real Property Manager, explained that there has been an offer on the Dimmick Campus Property. 
Ms. Lulich briefed the board of the history of the property. The county has loans with a balance on the property for the 
demolition of the old buildings that were on the property. The remaining balance on the loans total $1,245,734.00. The offer 
to purchase the property was 90% of what listing was for with 120 days of due diligence. The goal is to move County 
offices, such as public health and community development. The buyer is asking for the county to possibly provide owner 
carry options with 50% down payment. The contingency would be the development approval from the City of Grants Pass. 
Terms would need to be negotiated. Closing costs would include commissions, the debt owed on the property. Discussion 
held about the lease back for the building that current departments are in. The board agreed that a lease option for potentially 
2 years with a cancelation clause that allows the county to provide 30 days’ notice once the county finds new locations for 
the departments. The board authorized Ms. Lulich to work with the realtors and negotiate on behalf of the county and bring 
it back to the board before finalizing the sale.  
2. Southern Oregon Sanitation (SOS) – Kerby Transfer Station – Rate Increase 
Trent Carpenter from Southern Oregon Sanitation, gave the history of the Kirby transfer station. At one point the transfer 
station was losing almost $250,000.00 a year. To help reduce the loss, the days and hours of the station were reduced. The 
rate increase would assist with financing the operations of the Kerby Transfer Station. Mr. Carpenter explained that the 
board could approve this rate increase or opt to close the Kerby Transfer Station. Concern over closing the transfer station, 
could lead to possible garbage dumping in our forests was discussed. The franchise agreement does have a clause to allow 
for the rate to increase. The increase would be 20% at the facility, and the curbside subscribers would see a surcharge of 
$1.80 for the county users. This matter moves forward to the weekly business session in 2 weeks.  
3. 
Evergreen Bank Demand Letter 
Mr. Hicks explained to the board that the county has received the demand letter from Evergreen Bank. There was an 
economic development request that was approved by the previous board of commissioners. After it was approved, it was 
determined that there was information that caused the county to stop the check. The board discussed different approaches 
to this matter. Dustin Calvo, Josephine County Treasurer, gave the history in depth and explained the process the county 
went through with a stop payment on the check. The board directed staff to respond to Evergreen with the answer that the 
county does not find itself liable for the funding.  
4. 
Public Comment on BLM Western Oregon Timber Plan (Deadline March 23) 
Commissioner Smith explained that the deadline for public comment on this matter is on March 23, 2026. Mr. Smith has 
created a letter to submit on behalf of the county. The board will review the draft letter and bring it back for review at the 
next scheduled administration workshop.  
5. 
Report and Recommendation – Offer to Purchase County Real Property located at New Hope Road 
Ms. Lulich explained that this property has gone through the auction process. There was an offer placed on this property 
with a full cash price of $6,000.00. Commissioner Martin made a motion to approve and accept the report and 
recommendation for the offer to purchase county real property located at New Hope Road. The motion was seconded by 
Commissioner Richardson. Upon roll call; Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Martin – yes, Commissioner 
Smith – yes. Motion carried 3-0. 
 
 
 
County Administration Workshop 
                       March 3, 2026                                    Page 2 of 4 
 
6. 
Execution of Quitclaim Deed from Josephine County to Anthony and Dawn Boult for sale of County 
Property located at 12100 Redwood Hwy, Grants Pass (Board Order No. 2025-046) 
Ms. Lulich explained that this property received through the tax foreclosure process, and went through several auction 
processes. The property received an offer and the previous board sold the land through a land sale contract. The property 
has been paid off. Commissioner Richardson made a motion to approve and accept the report and recommendation for the 
offer to purchase county real property located at New Hope Road. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Martin. 
Upon roll call; Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Martin – yes, Commissioner Smith – yes. Motion carried 
3-0. 
7. 
Report and Recommendation for County Real Property located at 1798 SE N Street – Ground Lease 
Offer 
Ms. Lulich explained that this is a short-term ground lease for the county’s N Street property. The board directed Ms. Lulich 
to negotiate the short-term lease on behalf of the county.  
8. 
Board Order No. 2026-005; In the Matter of the Sale of County Land Remaining Unsold Following 
Sheriff’s Auction of September 17, 2025; Quitclaim Deed for Sale of County Land located at Winona 
Rd – R302226 
Ms. Lulich discussed this property, and the county received the property as a tax foreclosure. The county has received a full 
priced, cash offer. Ms. Lulich explained the process, and the board order to approve the quitclaim deed. Mr. Hicks explained 
that due to the property being received through the foreclosure process, the funds for this property will move to the county 
surplus fund. This matter moves to the next weekly business session. 
9. 
Gabbert et al v. Josephine County et al; USDC 1:23-cv-01434-CL – ORS 192.660(2)(h) – Surplus 
Litigation potential settlement 
Mr. Hicks explained that Josephine County participated in mediation with six other counties for surplus funding and the 
foreclosure process. No agreement has been made, but there will be an update coming soon. This agenda item is for 
informational purposes only.  
10. Disbursement of Remaining Funds to the City of Cave Junction pursuant to Board Order No. 2024-
035 for the Sale of Burgundy Lane 
Ms. Lulich explained that this was a master plan development. The development is within the City of Cave Junction. There 
was a resolution that requires that the portion of the proceeds of the property sales go towards upgrades of a splash park 
within the City of Cave Junction. It was an obligation of $90,000.00 to the City of Cave Junction. The board approved the 
payment to the City without objection.  
11. Petition to Withdraw from Josephine County Community Library District 
Mr. Hicks discussed that the county has received a petition that meets the requirement to hold a hearing. The board of 
commissioners will need to hold a public hearing to determine if it is feasible for the property to receive services from the 
Library District. Discussion was held on the process, and the timeframe it takes to schedule the hearing. The board directed 
staff to set the hearing to determine the feasibility of the property.  
12. Public Information Officer 
Mr. Hicks explained that the prior staff member who held this title fell under the information technology department. The 
county has been without a designated Records Management Officer. The job description for the Web and Information 
Coordinator processes public records requests, works with public relations, such as social media accounts, and designated 
news outlets for press releases and updates. Mr. Hicks recommended that the position stay under information technology 
and expressed the need for the position to be filled within the county. The roll has been unfilled, and county policy designates 
this job title to perform statutory obligations. The board directed staff to move forward with the job description and posting 
of the vacancy.  
 
b.   Finance 
1. 
Fee Change Request – Community Development (Planning) 
Ruth Nelson, Josephine County Finance Director, explained that Community Development has requested to increase the 
fees for their department. Ms. Nelson spoke about the process of the fee changes. Finance has set the goal to have the fee 
in place by May 1, 2026. The request is for a new fee that the Marijuana Enforcement Ordinance that was passed in 2025. 
This would implement late fees for individuals who do not file their annual compliance certificates on time. The board 
directed this matter to move to the next weekly business session.   
2. 
Economic Development Application Process 
 Ms. Nelson explained that the application process has not been revamped in several years, and how she would 
recommend improving the process to make it more transparent, and allow for public comment. Commissioner Martin and 
County Administration Workshop 
                       March 3, 2026                                    Page 3 of 4 
 
Commissioner Richarson both would like to see the process improved. Commissioner Martin stated she would like to 
work with Ms. Nelson and had some ideas on  how to adjust the process. Discussion was held regarding scoring the 
applications and setting for a rubric scale for creating standards. Ms. Nelson answered questions from Commissioner 
Richardson. This matter will be brought back at the next administration workshop.          
 
d. Community Justice 
1.  Amendment No. 1 to Grant Agreement (BDH-27-12) with the State of Oregon and Josephine 
County Behavioral Health Deflection Grant Program 
Scott Hyde, Community Justice Director, explained the deflection grant program. In October 2025, Josephine County was 
awarded a $291,692 grant under Phase 1 of the Oregon Behavioral Health Deflection Program, a collaborative effort 
between law enforcement and behavioral health agencies to support individuals experiencing substance use disorders, 
behavioral health disorders, or co-occurring conditions. This amendment awards the County an additional $1,723,614 to 
expand program services. The Grants Pass Sobering Center serves as the lead agency for implementing the grant activities, 
and the County also receives funding for a deflection liaison deputy at the Sheriff’s Office as well as grant administration 
costs.  Mr. Hyde explained that The Criminal Justice Commission recently approved an additional allocation of $943,636.00 
to the Grants Pass Sobering Center, and discussed how important their roll is in the community. The board approved Mr. 
Hyde to sign all agreements presented.  Commissioner Martin made a motion to approve the Amendment No. 1 to Grant 
Agreement with the State of Oregon and the Behavioral Health Program. The motion was seconded by Commissioner 
Richardson. Upon roll call; Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Martin – yes, Commissioner Smith – yes. 
Motion carried 3-0. 
2.  Amendment No. 1 to Contract for Personal Services with the Grants Pass Sobering Center, Inc., 
and Josephine County Community Corrections for Behavioral Health Deflection Grant Services 
Discussion for this agenda item took place under agenda item 2.d.1. Commissioner Martin made a motion to approve the 
Amendment No. 1 to Contract for Personal Services with Grants Pass Sobering Center, Inc. and Josephine County 
Corrections for Behavioral Health. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Richardson. Upon roll call; 
Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Martin – yes, Commissioner Smith – yes. Motion carried 3-0. 
3.  Personal Services Contract with Options for Southern Oregon, Inc.,  and Josephine County 
Community Corrections for Josephine County Family Treatment Court Services 
Discussion for this agenda item took place under agenda item 2.d.1. Commissioner Martin made a motion to approve the 
Amendment No. 1 to Grant Agreement with the State of Oregon and the Behavioral Health Program. The motion was 
seconded by Commissioner Richardson. Upon roll call; Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Martin – yes, 
Commissioner Smith – yes. Motion carried 3-0. 
4.  Personal Services Contract with Adapt and Josephine County Community Corrections for 
Josephine County Family Treatment Court Services 
Discussion for this agenda item took place under agenda item 2.d.1. Commissioner Richardson made a motion to approve 
the Amendment No. 1 to Grant Agreement with the State of Oregon and the Behavioral Health Program. The motion was 
seconded by Commissioner Martin. Upon roll call; Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Martin – yes, 
Commissioner Smith – yes. Motion carried 3-0. 
5.  Personal Services Contract with The Family Nurturing Center and Josephine County Community 
Corrections for Family Treatment Court Services             
Discussion for this agenda item took place under agenda item 2.d.1. Commissioner Martin made a motion to approve the 
Amendment No. 1 to Grant Agreement with the State of Oregon and the Behavioral Health Program. The motion was 
seconded by Commissioner Richardson. Upon roll call; Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Martin – yes, 
Commissioner Smith – yes. Motion carried 3-0. 
6.  Personal Services Contract with CASA of Jackson County and Josephine County Community 
Corrections for Josephine County Family Treatment Court Services  
Discussion for this agenda item took place under agenda item 2.d.1. Commissioner Martin made a motion to approve the 
Amendment No. 1 to Grant Agreement with the State of Oregon and the Behavioral Health Program. The motion was 
seconded by Commissioner Richardson. Upon roll call; Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Martin – yes, 
Commissioner Smith – yes. Motion carried 3-0. 
3. Board Business  
None heard.  
     4. Other 
It was brought up that Worksource Oregon’s bylaws requires a Josephine County Commissioner be a part of the 
committee. The board appointed Commissioner Richardson as the liaison without objection.  
 
County Administration Workshop 
                       March 3, 2026                                    Page 4 of 4 
 
     5. Additional Subject Matters from Commissioners/Announcements’ 
Commissioner Smith spoke about O&C lands, and the importance of them. 
 
The meeting adjourned at 3:54 p.m.