Item 2b1
Item 2b2
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
Item 2b3
 
 
 
1 
Appendix A 
 
APPLICATION COVER SHEET 
 
Josephine County Opioid Settlement  
Abatement Strategies Funding 
Request for Application 
 
Agency or Organization Name:  HIV Alliance 
 
 
Address:  1195 City View Street, Eugene, OR 97402 
 
 
Contact Person:  Renee Yandel, Executive Director 
 
 
Phone:  541-342-5088 ext. 1113                               Fax: 541-342-1150 
 
 
Email:  ryandel@allianceor.org 
 
Focus Area requesting funding:  
 
    X      NALOXONE OR OTHER FDA-APPROVED DRUG TO REVERSE OPIOID OVERDOSES 
    X      MEDICATION-ASSISTED TREATMENT (mat) DISTRIBUTIONAND OTHER OPIOID-  
            RELATED TREATMENT 
            PREGNANT & POSTPARTUM WOMEN 
            EXPANDING TREATMENT FOR NEONATAL ABSTINENCE SYNDROME (“N.A.S”) 
            EXPANSION OF WARM HAND-OFF PROGRAMS AND RECOVERY SERVICES 
            TREATMENT FOR INCARCERATERED POPULATIONS 
            PREVENTION PROGRAMS 
    X      EXPANDING SYRINGE SERVICE PROGRAMS 
 
Amount Requested: $ 28,874 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
June 12, 2026 
 
 
Authorized Signature                                                                
Date 
 
 
Name and Title of person Authorized to Sign: Renee Yandel, Executive Director  
 
 
 
Appendix B 
 
 
 
2 
Agency or Organization Qualifications 
 
1.  Full name of legal entity with which Josephine County would contract. 
HIV Alliance 
 
2.  Concisely describe your agency’s overall capacity to provide the services applying for. 
To provide the requested services, HIV Alliance will utilize staff and 
programs that are funded through other secured sources. Our agency has 
32 years of expertise and experience providing a range of health and social 
services to people living with HIV and communities at increased risk for HIV 
across Oregon. Over these decades, we have managed diverse funding 
sources, and we have successfully complied with all contract requirements, 
including regular financial and programmatic reporting. Today, our 
organization’s budget exceeds $15 million. We also have appropriate 
leadership, finance, and administrative staff capacity to oversee ongoing 
implementation of this project. 
 
3.  IRS Tax Number:  93-0963546 
4.  Profit or Non-Profit?  Non-Profit 
5.  Number of years serving the community:  32 
 
6.  Assurance that plan exists to provide services to people from culturally diverse back-
grounds who may also be non-English speakers.                 
Yes 
7.  Assurance that plan exists to ensure that all employees are instructed in the 
requirements concerning the security and privacy of health data in the Health Portability 
and Accounting Act of 1996 (HIPAA).                                
Yes 
8.  Assurance that entity is in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and the 
Civil Rights Act, Section 504.                                                    
Yes 
9.  Assurance that entity complies with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and that no 
person shall be denied services or be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, 
religion, national origin, sex, or duration of residence.              
Yes 
10.  Assurance that all staff and volunteers used in providing services will complete a 
criminal history check per ORS 181.536 through 181.537, and will not have any 
unsupervised contact with clients prior to approval by the Department of Human 
Services.                                                                           
Yes 
 
11.  Assurance that all providers who will be providing services will have all licenses, 
certificates, authorizations and other approvals required by law to deliver Services.   
Copies of licenses, certificates, and/or authorizations must be attached.    
 Yes 
 
 
 
3 
12.  Assurance that agency will provide general liability insurance, professional liability 
insurance, and automobile liability insurance, and workers’ compensation insurance, with 
Josephine County and the Oregon Health Authority named as additional insured.  
Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
AGENCY BOARD PROFILE 
 
Agency Name HIV Alliance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of board members required in bylaws?  Minimum 4 
    Maximum 20 
 
 
Number of board members currently active?  # voting 10  
   Vacancies 10 
    
 
Average percentage board meeting attendance (over last completed year):  75  % 
 
Percent of board in attendance required for a quorum: 51  % 
 
How many youth currently serve on the board of directors?  0  
 
 
List various board, advisory and as hoc committees and the number of people on each. 
 
Committee  
 
 
 
Number of Members 
 
Executive Committee 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
Budget & Finance Committee  
3 
 
 
 
 
Governance Committee  
 
3 
 
 
 
 
Development Committee  
 
3 
 
 
 
 
Clinic Advisory 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
 
 
Advisory Committee 
 
 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
13.  List of Current Board of Directors 
 
 
 
Name 
Position 
Term 
Omar Al Rais 
President 
06/2020 – 
06/2026 
Jayden Ruff 
President Elect 
07/2022 – 
06/2026 
Jesse Quinn 
Secretary 
02/2023 – 
06/2026 
Laura Turpen 
Treasurer 
11/2024 – 
06/2026 
Jerry Kovac 
Board Member 
05/2023 – 
06/2026 
Kyle Rodriguez-Hudson 
Board Member 
07/2024 – 
06/2027 
Nick West 
Board Member 
02/2024 – 
06/2027 
Mulan Rouge/Benjamin Haong 
Board Member 
11/2023 – 
06/2027 
Vince Mays 
Board Member 
03/2025 – 
06/2028 
Sean McBurney 
Board Member 
04/2026 – 
06/2029 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
NARRATIVE 
 
1. Agency/Coalition:  Provide a short introduction of your agency/coalition.  
Include how and when started, evolution over time, and current internal structure 
(e.g. board, committees, leadership).  How has the agency/coalition addressed 
substance use issues?  Describe one major accomplishment agency/coalition 
has reached in the past year.  
 
 
Introduction, history, and current structure. HIV Alliance was established in 
1994 in Eugene after several HIV/AIDS organizations merged. Our mission is to 
support individuals living with HIV/AIDS and prevent new HIV infections. Over the last 
32 years, we have broadened our scope to include common co-occurring infections 
such as hepatitis C, substance use disorder (SUD) and opioid overdose, and the root 
causes of these issues. We have also expanded into many rural areas of Oregon.  
 
HIV Alliance provides a range of care and prevention services in Josephine County. 
This includes comprehensive Ryan White care coordination for people living with HIV. 
The program offers resource navigation, medical case management, HIV-specific 
dental access, pharmaceutical support for treatment adherence, transportation, 
housing navigation and assistance, social support opportunities, and more. We also 
have an intensive supportive housing program for people living with HIV who are 
impacted by housing instability and a behavioral health condition. Last year, our care 
coordination program served more than 1,200 people living with HIV across our 15-
county service region. 
 
We provide evidence-based services that prevent new HIV infections and other serious 
health issues. This includes street and event outreach; low barrier rapid testing for HIV, 
hepatitis C, and syphilis; referral to care; syringe services; overdose prevention (e.g., 
overdose reversal training, naloxone, fentanyl test strips); safer sex supplies and 
education; and more. Last fiscal year, these programs reached more than 10,000 at-
risk people across our seven county service region. 
 
Our behavioral health department provides mental health counseling as well as peer 
support for people impacted by SUD. Peer services include outreach, resource 
navigation, risk reduction counseling, support in accessing SUD treatment (and other 
healthcare services), housing and emergency shelter assistance, problem solving, 
skills building, transportation, and more. During fiscal year 2025, our counseling 
program served 149 individuals, and our peer support program served 467. 
 
Our low barrier medical clinic is based in Eugene. It provides medication assisted 
treatment (MAT) for opioid use disorder, Contingency Management for reduction of 
stimulant; clinical sexually transmitted infections (STI) testing; treatment for HIV, 
hepatitis C, and other STIs; pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) prescribing; vaccines; 
 
 
 
7 
and general primary care. Services are provided in-person and via telehealth. During 
fiscal year 2025, 604 patients accessed the clinic.  
 
Some key highlights of our history include the following. 
 
• Our syringe services program was launched in 1999 (2011 in Josephine County).  
• We began providing HIV testing (including at syringe exchange) in 2001. 
• HIV and hepatitis C rapid testing was launched in 2013-2014 
• Mental health counseling was launched in 2016. 
• We began offering opioid overdose prevention services in 2017. 
• The supportive housing program was launched in 2019.  
• Our peer support program was launched in 2020. 
• Our medical clinic was opened in 2020. 
 
HIV Alliance has 10 member Board of Directors. We have eight staff committees which 
are involved in decision making: BIPOC Outreach; Building Transition; Employee 
Advisory; Equity Leadership; Happy and Healthy; Safety, Operations, and Building; 
Service Quality and Inclusion; Sustainability; and Staff Training. A list of HIV Alliance 
departments and leadership is provided below. 
 
• Executive and administration: 
o Executive Director: Renee Yandel 
o HR & Operations Director: Olivia Stankey 
o The Lavender Network Manager: Laura Henry 
 
• Clinic and housing stability: 
o Senior Program Director: Amanda McCluskey 
o Peer Services Manager: Amy Zamudio 
o Housing Stability and Low Barrier Access Manager: Kyle Knox 
o Health Related Social Needs Manager: Tiana Lopez 
o Clinic Manager/Harm Reduction Intervention Manager: Trishia Yada 
 
• Prevention and education: 
o Prevention Director: Michaela Starr O’Leary 
o Southern Prevention Manager (Douglas & Coos): Dane Zahner  
o Southern Prevention Manager (Josephine & Curry): Harmony Beckett 
o Lane County Prevention Manager: Alex Cribbs 
o Northern Prevention Manager: Ken Gutierrez 
 
• HIV Care coordination: 
o Director of Care: Brittney Wright 
o Southern Care Coordination Manager: Johnny Garcia 
 
 
 
8 
o Northern Care Coordination Manager: Carolina Arredondo Sanchez Lira 
o Southern Supportive Housing Program Manager: Nick Mantheakis 
o Supportive Housing Program Manager: Sara Pyle 
 
• Finance: 
o Finance Director: Alissa King 
o Accounting Manager: Kate Guptill 
 
• Development: 
o Development Director: Jade Lazaris 
o Development Manager: Matt Mazur 
 
How substance use issues are addressed. HIV Alliance is highly qualified to 
provide effective opioid abatement services in Josephine County. We have decades of 
experience serving people living with HIV and individuals at high-risk for HIV in 
Oregon, including underserved people impacted by SUD. We address substance use 
issues through various integrated, evidence-based strategies that are client centered, 
nonjudgmental, trauma informed, inclusive, and accessible. Importantly, all our 
programs include individualized assistance for clients impacted by SUD to effectively 
reduce barriers to care and address the root causes of SUD.   
 
One strong example of this work is the Prime Plus Peer Support initiative. HIV 
Alliance’s Peer Support Specialists participate in this program in Josephine and three 
additional Oregon Counties. Through wraparound supports from a trusted Peer, the 
program has been found to effectively reduce drug use, promote SUD treatment 
utilization, identify and prevent new HIV/hepatitis cases, address housing related 
barriers, and reduce emergency department visits. At the end of fiscal year 2025, after 
a six month follow-up, 71% of Prime Plus Peer Support clients reported reduced 
substance use, 69% accessed some kind of SUD treatment, 95% accessed 
HIV/hepatitis C testing, and 56% increased or maintained housing stability. 
 
HIV Alliance is an expert in the fields of infectious disease transmission related to 
injection drug use, SUD, and opioid overdose prevention, and we are members of 
several county/state harm reduction coalitions to address the substance use/overdose 
crisis in Oregon. Addressing the dangers and barriers to care that are associated with 
SUD is essential to achieving our mission.  
 
 
Major accomplishments over the past year. Over the last year, we have had 
several accomplishments related to improving access to SUD services for high-risk 
individuals in Josephine County. 
 
First, we are excited to report that we will soon be providing low barrier MAT for opioid 
use disorder in Josephine County as part of a new research study with New York 
 
 
 
9 
University. The Buprenorphine Implementation at Syringe Services Programs To 
Reduce Overdoses (BISTRO) trial will provide telemedicine MAT at our Josephine 
County syringe services sites (via our Eugene based medical providers). This 
expansion will increase access to treatment for syringe exchange participants utilizing 
existing services, granting ease of access to populations who may not otherwise seek 
or adhere to treatment. BISTRO aims to assess the effectiveness of this model in 
improving engagement with MAT among high risk and underserved groups. Telehealth 
treatment will allow us to reduce barriers to care for this population, and our staff will 
directly facilitate access to it. We are feeling highly optimistic about this innovative 
project, and, if found to be effective, hope to replicate it in other areas of our region 
where access to MAT is limited.  
 
As part of this expansion, we are also planning to offer telehealth treatment for HIV, 
hepatitis C, and syphilis as well as PrEP prescribing to individuals at high-risk for HIV 
in Josephine County. We are looking for opportunities to further expand the program to 
include an integrated, intensive patient support program, which will be delivered in-
person by Community Health Workers. 
 
Recently, we have also been successful in growing our reach to at-risk people 
impacted by SUD. Our Prevention Specialists and Peer Support Specialists have been 
providing regular street outreach to people experiencing houselessness in Josephine 
County, many of whom are impacted by untreated SUD. As another example, a year 
ago we received funding to offer food and basic needs supplies (e.g., tents, sleeping 
bags, clothing, hygiene kits) during outreach and at our drop-in syringe services sites. 
We were somewhat surprised by the volume of new people coming to us for these 
resources. Once the new visitors were able to connect with our staff, some went on to 
access prevention or peer support services. We estimated that we saw an increase of 
100 visitors per month.  
 
2. Background:  Identify the problem or gaps your program will fill with the 
abatement strategies.   
 
According to the Oregon Health Authority (OHA), in 2024 alone, 50 people in 
Josephine County died from a potentially preventable drug overdose.[1] During this 
time, at a rate of 23.83 per 100,000 residents, Josephine County ranked fourth highest 
for fentanyl-related deaths among Oregon counties.[2] Our county also sees very high 
rates of emergency department visits for opioid-related overdoses. In 2024, Josephine 
County experienced a rate of 137.07, the second highest county in Oregon.[3] 
Evidently, there is an unmet need in Josephine County for effective, lifesaving opioid 
abatement strategies that keep our community safe and reduce burdens on first 
responders and hospitals. 
 
Importantly, we see disproportionately high rates of SUD and overdose among certain 
 
 
 
10 
marginalized groups. In Oregon, between 2020 and 2024, the fentanyl overdose rate 
was 46.97 for American Indians/Alaskan Natives and 51.47 for Black/African 
Americans, which greatly exceeded rates experienced by white residents (18.65).[2] 
People experiencing houselessness and LGBTQ+ community members are also at 
increased risk for overdose.[4] 20% of Oregonians who died from an overdose in 2022 
were unhoused.[4] These populations are also disproportionately impacted by SUD 
diagnoses. SUD and overdose prevention services must therefore be easily accessible 
to and trusted by marginalized people who might be unable or hesitant to receive 
services through more traditional providers. 
 
In addition, people impacted by SUD in Josephine County are at increased risk for HIV, 
hepatitis C, and syphilis. Our county sees high rates of late HIV detection (defined as 
AIDS diagnosis within 90 days); between 2020 and 2024, 32% of new HIV cases in 
Josephine County were diagnosed late.[5] BIPOC, people who inject drugs, people 
experiencing houselessness, and LGBTQ+ people are diagnosed with HIV at higher 
rates.[5] People who inject drugs and people experiencing houselessness are also less 
likely to be virally suppressed or survive HIV after 10 years.[6] If left untreated, HIV, 
hepatitis C, and syphilis can lead to serious health complications, even death. In 
Josephine County, there are few local options for low barrier infectious disease testing 
and treatment, especially specialized care and rapid start treatment. 
 
AllCare Health’s Jackson and Josephine/Southern Douglas Counties Community 
Health Plan 2025 – 2029 determined that there is a lack of behavioral health services 
in the region, which is associated with provider shortages, lack of culturally responsive 
care, coverage gaps, and other factors.[7] Stress, stigma, trauma, social isolation, and 
inability to pay are listed as individual-level factors that contribute to unaddressed SUD 
and co-occurring mental health issues.[7] AllCare also reports that, in 2021, 57% of 
LGBTQ+ people in the region felt unwelcome or provided misinformation in healthcare 
settings. Providers with unique understandings of the experiences and needs of 
LGBTQ+ people is therefore greatly needed.[8] 
 
[1] OHA. (2024). Oregon Overdose Prevention Dashboard Death Data. 
[2] OHA. (2024). Oregon Overdose Prevention Dashboard State Unintentional Drug 
Overdose Reporting System. 
[3] OHA. (2024). Oregon Overdose Prevention Dashboard Hospital and Emergency 
Department (ED) Visit Data. 
[4] OHA. (2024). Overdose Death Disparities in Oregon. 
[5] OHA. (2026). End HIV Oregon Dashboard.  
[6] OHA. (2023). Oregon HIV Epidemiologic Profile 2023. 
[7] AllCare Health. (n.d.). Jackson and Josephine/Southern Douglas Counties 
Community Health Plan 2025 – 2029. 
[8] AllCare Health. (2023). Jackson and Josephine/Southern Douglas Counties CHP 
Progress Report.  
 
 
 
11 
 
3. Program Description and Scope of Work:  Include the following in your 
description:  
 
3a. Clearly state program/services to be provided and abatement strategies to be 
addressed.   
 
HIV Alliance’s proposal will address abatement strategies related to increasing access 
to naloxone and overdose reversal training, MAT, and infectious disease testing and 
linkage to treatment for high-risk people impacted by SUD in Josephine County. Our 
project is innovative in that it integrates several critical services that will work together 
to effectively address the opioid crisis in our community. 
 
Naloxone. Our Josephine County team will distribute free naloxone kits to 
individuals accessing syringe services, unhoused people during street outreach, and 
the general public at community events. Currently, we provide roughly 24 hours of 
drop-in opportunities per week at five regular locations in Grants Pass and Cave 
Junction. Our prevention and peer support teams also conduct weekly street outreach. 
Staff regularly participate in community events, where they offer information about our 
agency, education about SUD risks, and access to overdose prevention supplies. 
When receiving the naloxone kit, clients and community members will be offered brief 
one-on-one overdose reversal training and risk reduction counseling from our highly 
qualified and experienced Josephine County staff.  
 
This project will specifically focus on reaching community members who are more likely 
to experience an opioid overdose (or witness one) as well as those who are uninsured 
or whose insurance does not cover the lifesaving medication. Last year, our Josephine 
County syringe services program served 1,465 unduplicated people impacted by SUD 
via 2,845 visits. So far during fiscal year 2026, we have seen 18% more unduplicated 
clients (1,723) and 40% more client visits, suggesting an increase in demand and/or 
improved engagement. Roughly 8% of our syringe services clients report that they are 
uninsured, and we suspect that there may be others who are under-insured and not 
able to access naloxone. Additionally, the population served by our organization faces 
other complex barriers to naloxone through pharmacies or other providers as well as 
training on how to use the medication successfully. These common barriers include 
social stigma, lack of transportation, and severe mental health challenges. Food/basic 
needs insecurity is also a factor, as it creates competing priorities which make clients 
less likely to access naloxone and other SUD services when they need them. 
 
This fiscal year in Josephine County, we have given out nearly 9,000 doses of 
naloxone, and clients have reported 401 overdoses reversed (i.e., potential lives 
saved) using naloxone they received through our agency. This represents a 136% 
increase in doses distributed and a 36% increase in reported overdose reversals, 
 
 
 
12 
compared to the previous fiscal year. Securing more supplies to meet this growing 
need has been challenging for our agency, which is why we are requesting $10,000 for 
naloxone/naloxone kit items, which will be freely distributed to individuals in need. We 
expect that this contribution will literally save lives as well as help us raise awareness 
of SUD risks and the benefits of naloxone in our community.  
 
MAT. At every encounter, our Josephine County prevention program staff will 
offer syringe services clients a referral to low barrier MAT through our agency or local 
partners. As part of the BISTRO study, our staff will also directly facilitate telehealth 
MAT appointments through scheduling support, technology access, and confidential 
spaces in our Grants Pass office.  
 
Our extremely low barrier telehealth MAT option is very promising for success because 
it provides high-risk, underserved people with immediate access to treatment from a 
trusted source. Due to complex barriers, the patients we will serve with MAT are less 
likely to access it from other providers. However, because they are already 
participating in HIV Alliance’s syringe and overdose prevention services, engaging 
these clients in MAT will be much more effective. Integrating MAT with syringe services 
is highly innovative, and results of the BISTRO evaluation will help improve SUD 
services in Josephine County and beyond. 
 
Similar to our naloxone services, our MAT program will primarily target individuals who 
are unable to access much-needed treatment because of uninsurance, under-
insurance, or other barriers. Our priority population also faces poorer SUD-related 
health outcomes. Clients/patients impacted by opioid use disorder in Josephine County 
may also be offered peer support services for intensive and comprehensive support. 
HIV Alliance’s Peer Support Specialists will be able to provide OHP/Medicaid 
application assistance to clients who are uninsured. They will address other barriers to 
MAT that are related to houselessness, housing instability, food insecurity, 
unemployment, lack of access to transportation, other health issues, and other factors. 
This will support both MAT initiation and adherence, and it will improve health and 
overall wellness.  
 
The requested funding for staffing will support our goals to improve connections to 
MAT as well as integrated support services among syringe services clients. 
Specifically, it will support staff time to recruit new MAT patients, facilitate access to 
telehealth MAT, and provide ongoing client support and coordination of care. We will 
create a clear pathway from syringe services to MAT. Considering that we serve 
roughly 1,700 clients impacted by unaddressed SUD in Josephine County annually, 
this expansion is very likely to engage a significant number of MAT patients, especially 
those who could not access treatment outside of our agency. 
 
Expanding syringe services programs. This proposal will support improved 
 
 
 
13 
integration of naloxone, MAT, and syringe services with critical HIV, hepatitis C, and 
syphilis rapid testing. It will enable us to identify new infections and prevent future 
transmission in Josephine County. It will also support linkage to treatment for people 
newly diagnosed with HIV, hepatitis C, and syphilis as well as wraparound supports 
from a Care Coordinator or Peer Support Specialist. 
 
Rapid testing is currently offered alongside our syringe services for people who 
use/inject drugs in Josephine County. This helps us address multiple needs 
simultaneously. For example, clients who come to us for testing and indicate drug use 
will be offered safer use supplies, and those that come for syringe services will be 
educated about infectious disease risks and may receive testing immediately. We are 
also able to provide rapid testing at community events. 
 
 
In addition to MAT, we have plans to expand telehealth treatment for HIV, hepatitis C, 
and syphilis to Josephine County. This streamlined testing-to-treatment model is likely 
to engage individuals who were not previously aware of their HIV, hepatitis C, and 
syphilis status (and therefore able to transmit the virus to others). It will also reduce 
gaps in access to healthcare for underserved people impacted by SUD. As described 
previously, the clients that we serve experience high barriers to treatment, and they are 
often unable to access medical care through other providers. 
 
All individuals who test positive for HIV, hepatitis C, and syphilis will be offered case 
management through our agency. We are the only provider of care coordination for 
people living with HIV in Josephine County. Additionally, our onsite Peer Support 
Specialists participate in OHSU’s Peer Assisted Telemedicine for Hepatitis C and 
Syphilis (PATHS) program, which works to improve engagement with treatment among 
people with SUD in rural Oregon, including Josephine County. PATHS clients receive 
support in accessing telehealth hepatitis C and syphilis treatment from OHSU as well 
as wraparound support services from a Peer. 
 
3b. Describe the community need/gap or needs/gaps being met by this program. 
 
Our integrated approach to HIV and overdose prevention is highly needed in under-
resourced Josephine County, and this project will effectively address gaps in access to 
evidence-based naloxone, MAT, and rapid testing for individuals at greatest risk. HIV 
Alliance’s SUD services are very low barrier, trauma informed, culturally responsive, 
and client centered.  
 
Over recent years have seen concerning increases in the number of reported 
overdoses reversed by clients who use naloxone they received from HIV Alliance (see 
Graph 1). Although this may be at least partially attributable to an increase in naloxone 
doses distributed, we believe it indicates increasing substance use risks as well as our 
success in reaching individuals who are most likely to experience an opioid overdose 
 
 
 
14 
in our community. The program literally saves lives. 
 
Graph 1. Overdoses reported by Josephine clients (fiscal years 2023 to 2026). 
 
 
Through direct outreach and our 15 years of service in Josephine County, HIV Alliance 
has established strong trust and rapport with local at-risk community members. We are 
very effective in engaging underserved people in critical services. As mentioned, reach 
nearly 1,700 people who inject/use drugs in Josephine County each year. Marginalized 
people are overrepresented in our client population. Approximately 73% of syringe 
services clients are unhoused; roughly 13% are BIPOC (compared to 8% of BIPOC in 
the overall Josephine County population). We also reach many local LGBTQ+ people 
through our integrated testing program. We are therefore well-positioned for success in 
meeting significant unmet SUD related needs for these populations. 
 
Our medical clinic has also been successful in reaching underserved populations. 
Roughly half of our patients are unhoused or unstably housed, 52% are impacted by 
SUD, and 37% identify as LGBTQ+. Our providers specialize in HIV, MAT, and other 
health issues related to SUD, and have seen a lot of success reducing barriers to 
healthcare through individualized client assistance. We will utilize lessons learned and 
best practices in our expansion to Josephine County.  
 
3c. Identify the number of individuals this program will serve. 
 
Based on past syringe services data, we expect to serve at least 1,500 residents of 
Josephine County with naloxone, MAT, and/or rapid testing.  
 
3d. Describe the focus population(s) to be served.   
 
The focus populations are communities that are disproportionately impacted by opioid 
overdose, SUD, HIV, and related issues. This includes people who use/inject drugs, 
people experiencing houselessness and housing insecurity, BIPOC, and LGBTQ+ 
community members in Josephine County. 
 
174 
294 
294 
401 
 -
 100
 200
 300
 400
 500
FY23
FY24
FY25
FY26 (so far)
 
 
 
15 
3e. Describe the geographic areas of Josephine County to be served.   
 
This project will serve five sites in Grants Pass and Cave Junction (where HIV Alliance 
currently provides testing, harm reduction, and outreach services). These 
sites/partners are Newman United Methodist Church, Adapt, Mobile Integrative 
Navigation Team, Max’s Mission, Immanuel United Methodist Church, and Jubilee 
Park. It will serve additional areas of Grants Pass and Cave Junction through street 
outreach. With greater capacity, we would also like to explore options to expand this 
program to more rural/isolated areas of the county in the future. 
 
3f. Describe the accessibility of the program to individuals. 
 
Our programs are accessible and appropriate to the populations served. We literally 
meet at-risk people where they are at (e.g., on the street, at community-specific 
events, at SUD treatment centers). We ensure that that service sites are ADA-
accessible. We may also provide transportation assistance and telehealth options to 
reduce geographic barriers to services. When available, we will provide individualized 
client assistance to reduce all other barriers, including basic needs insecurity and 
houselessness/housing instability. All services at HIV Alliance are harm reduction 
based, trauma informed, culturally and linguistically responsive, and client centered. 
We utilize a third party translation service, and all written materials are developed to be 
accessible for any reading level.  
 
3g. Describe the responsiveness of program to diverse populations. 
 
HIV Alliance has 32 years of experience serving diverse communities and, through 
these years of lessons learned and rapport built, HIV Alliance is well-equipped to serve 
people who use/inject drugs, communities of color, LGBTQ+ communities, unhoused 
people, and other marginalized/at-risk populations with naloxone, MAT, and rapid 
testing. We will utilize culturally appropriate and respectful language for brochures and 
educational materials. We will also provide tailored information and referral to culturally 
specific partner agencies, as appropriate. Our staff and board are highly representative 
of the at-risk populations we serve. For example, our Peer Support Specialists have 
the lived experience of SUD. Staff will utilize shared identities and experienced to 
ensure resources are appropriate and effective for the target populations. All HIV 
Alliance staff receive extensive initial and ongoing training on cultural responsiveness.  
 
3h. Identify the evidence-based practices to be employed to achieve best results. 
Provide data that supports the curriculum or practice to be used.  Links to 
websites are acceptable.  
 
Our request aligns with evidence-based and best practices for increasing access to 
prevention, recovery, and medical services. Community based warm hand off 
 
 
 
16 
programs are highly effective for engaging and retaining high-risk populations of 
people who use/inject drugs in treatment for SUD.[1] This is especially true when 
integrated with syringe services programs, as staff and volunteers are able to build 
meaningful, trusting relationships with people who use/inject drugs.[2] In general, 
syringe services programs, including integrated rapid testing and naloxone distribution, 
are strongly supported by scientific consensus and various public health agencies, 
including the CDC[2] and OHA[3].  
 
Studies have shown that HIV telehealth treatment is an effective solution to HIV 
inequities in rural areas and among high-risk populations.[4] Providing low barrier, 
rapid start HIV treatment is heavily linked to improved care engagement and viral 
suppression.[5,6] In Southern Oregon, we are participating in OHSU’s PATHS 
research study. It has demonstrated success in improving access to treatment 
specifically among rural people who inject/use drugs.[7] Telehealth MAT, with 
integrated support services, has also demonstrated success in improving health 
outcomes for vulnerable populations in rural areas.[8] Our programs are grounded in 
harm reduction, an evidence based strategy. 
 
[1] https://warmhandoff.org/ 
[2] https://www.cdc.gov/overdose-prevention/hcp/clinical-guidance/linkage-to-care.html 
[3] https://www.oregon.gov/oha/ph/preventionwellness/substanceuse/pages/harm-
reduction.aspx 
[4] https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC12261626/ 
[5] https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10189984/ 
[6] https://clinicalinfo.hiv.gov/en/guidelines/hiv-clinical-guidelines-adult-and-adolescent-
arv/initiation-antiretroviral-therapy 
[7] https://peerpathstohealth.org/publications/ 
[8] https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S037687162500081X 
 
3i. Provide the project staffing plan and supervision to be provided. 
 
The project activities (naloxone distribution, overdose reversal training, facilitating 
access to MAT, rapid testing, and referrals/linkage to infectious disease treatment) will 
be provided by two Prevention Specialists in Josephine County. They will be supported 
by two Peer Support Specialists (who will assist with outreach and wraparound 
supports for people with SUD), a Research Coordinator (who will help with MAT 
access and evaluation of the BISTRO study), two Eugene-based Medical Providers 
(who will deliver telemedicine), other clinic staff (for scheduling, etc.), and our 
Prevention Manager (who will oversee this project and supervise local staff). Josephine 
County staff members are based in our Grants Pass office, which is located at 
Newman United Methodist Church at 132 NE B Street in Grants Pass. 
 
3j. Describe the collaboration or coordination with other agencies or 
 
 
 
17 
organizations.  ***Attach letters of support.  
 
We are attaching a letter of support from Newman United Methodist Church, who will 
continue to support us through office space rental and service provision at their site in 
Grants Pass. Adapt has also provided a letter of support. 
 
Other partners and roles are listed below.  
 
• Adapt, Asante, MINT, Curry Medical Network, & Siskiyou: refer to medical care 
and partner on street outreach 
• Josephine public health & OHA: contract for prevention, case management, and 
peer support services; report outcomes; and more  
• Various nonprofit/community based organizations: provide prevention services 
at/with Newman United Methodist Church, Immanuel United Methodist Church, 
Adapt, MINT, and Max’s Mission; collaborate with various Measure 110 
Behavioral Health Resource Network (BHRN) partners in Josephine for other 
behavioral health care and support services, etc.; refer to other partners for 
social services and more 
• OHSU: participate in the PATHS project 
• New York University: participate in the BISTRO project 
 
3k. Identity challenges and barriers to success that may be encountered, and 
solutions to address them. 
 
The primary challenges that we anticipate will be related to client barriers. The people 
we serve face growing cost of living and food/basic needs insecurity, which have 
strong impacts on engagement with services. We will mitigate these issues by 
providing food and basic needs items to clients (when available) as well as conducting 
street outreach to unhouse people. Our Peer Support Specialists and Care 
Coordinators may provide individualized client assistance to improve access and 
uptake of prevention and care services.  
 
3l. Identify program outcomes and the evaluation plan for measuring success.  
 
Outcomes. HIV Alliance proposes the following outcomes during fiscal year 
2027 (July 1, 2026 to June 30, 2027) in Josephine County. 
 
(1) 3,000 duplicated harm reduction client visits will be made. 
(2) 100% of people who access harm reduction services will be offered a 
referral to substance use disorder treatment/MAT. 
(3) We will start enrolling clients in 2026 for the BISTRO study, with the goal of 
providing MAT to 64 individuals over the course of the study. 
 
 
 
18 
(4) 6,000 naloxone doses will be distributed. 
(5) 200 HIV tests will be provided. 
(6) 200 hepatitis C tests will be provided. 
(7) 200 syphilis tests will be provided. 
(8) 100% of individuals who receive a positive test result will be referred to 
medical treatment. 
(9) 100% of individuals who receive a positive test result will be offered HIV care 
coordination or PATHS peer support. 
(10) 100 individuals will receive peer support services. 
 
 
Evaluation plan. We will evaluate our success in reference to our stated goals 
and outcomes. Naloxone, testing, clinic, peer support, care coordination, and other 
programs will utilize a detailed internal program plan to track progress. The plans will 
be updated and reviewed monthly to determine and address any needed changes to 
programming. Detailed syringe services/naloxone data (e.g., client demographics/risk 
factors, supplies distributed) is entered into a PowerBI database. BISTRO data is 
entered into REDCap to share with New York University and partner researchers. 
Clinic will enter patient data into Athena Electronic Health Record. Peer support 
program enters data into state GPRA database for outcomes reporting. Care 
coordinators utilize CAREWare for client/outcome data. These programs also collect 
client feedback through regular client satisfaction surveys, which are evaluated by our 
staff Service Quality and Inclusion Committee. The committee also reviews 
anonymous suggestion box submissions. Our client advisory committees may also 
provide feedback on the project and further unmet needs. We may reference external 
public health data to determine wider community impact. 
 
3m. Describe if this is a one-time project or what sustainability would look like.  
 
This is not a one-time project. HIV Alliance will continue to provide these services as 
long as SUD is an issue in Josephine County. Moving forward, telemedicine will be 
funded through health insurance billing. Some start-up and research costs for 
telehealth MAT in Josephine County will be supported by the BISTRO study. 
Overdose/HIV prevention and patient support programs (e.g., HIV care coordination, 
peer support) will be sustained primarily by secured government contracts, including 
OHA’s Ryan White and Measure 110 funding. However, we are encountering growing 
budget gaps in these contracts because of increasing costs related to staff wages and 
supplies while funding amounts stay the same or decrease. We also receive in-kind 
donations of naloxone and rapid tests, but they do not fully cover the need. For any 
future revenue needs, we will apply for all appropriate funding sources from diverse 
sources. 
 
 
 
 
19 
BUDGET 
 
 
Amount Requested 
Prevention Specialist (8 hours) 
$13,874  
Rapid Tests & Testing Supplies 
$5,000  
Naloxone & Naloxone Kit Supplies 
$10,000  
TOTAL 
$28,874  
 
 
 
 
 
20 
 
Appendix C 
 
Statement of Assurances 
 
The undersigned attests that the information provided to determine eligibility is true and accurate to 
the best of his or her knowledge.  The undersigned further attests that he or she has the authority or 
responsibility to represent the agency or organization in all phases of this Request for Application 
process.  Finally, the undersigned understands that any false or substantially incorrect statement may 
disqualify this proposal from further consideration or be cause for termination of any further contract. 
 
If this application is selected for funding, the undersigned provides assurances on behalf or his or her 
organization that the organization will comply with the terms and conditions in its Provider Agreement 
with Josephine County.  The organization will also comply with all applicable federal, state, county 
and local statutes, rules and funding criteria governing service, facilities and operations.  Finally, the 
organization will submit all required reports, documents and forms within the allotted time for their 
submission. 
 
The undersigned, as applicant, declares that he or she has carefully examined the requirements of 
this Request for Applications packet and that applicant agrees, if the proposal is accepted, that 
applicant will contract with Josephine County to provide the services as specified, in accordance with 
the proposal offered here. 
 
The applicant hereby certifies that the organization is a resident bidder as defined in ORS 279A.120. 
 
By initialing this space           applicant hereby certifies that the organization has not discriminated 
against minorities, women, or emerging small business enterprises in obtaining any required 
subcontracts.  By initialing this space          applicant hereby certifies that to the best of applicant’s 
knowledge, the organization is in compliance with all Oregon tax laws described in ORS 305.380(4). 
 
 
 
___________________________________________________                   June 12, 2026 
 
 
 
    Authorized signature in blue ink 
 
 
 
 
 
   Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name and Title of person Authorized to Sign:  Renee Yandel, Executive Director 
Agency or Organization Name:  HIV Alliance 
 
 
 
 
P.O. Box 1121, Roseburg, OR 97470 
541-672-2691 |  www.adaptoregon.org 
 
 
 
 
5/26/2026 
 
 
Josephine County Prevention and Treatment Services 
301 NW F Street 
Grants Pass, OR 97526 
 
 
 
 
Dear Josephine County Prevention and Treatment Services, 
 
On behalf of Adapt Integrated Health Care, I am providing this letter of support for HIV Alliance 
and their proposal for Josephine County Opioid Settlement Abatement Strategies Funding. 
 
Adapt’s mission is to provide our communities with access to world-class primary care, addiction 
treatment, behavioral health care, and prevention services to promote health and restore lives. 
Adapt is a longtime partner of HIV Alliance in Josephine County and other areas of Southern 
Oregon. We work together to provide outreach, referral, and prevention services for high-risk 
individuals. We also collaborate closely as members of Josephine County’s Measure 110 
Behavioral Health Resource Network. 
 
HIV Alliance’s project will reach a uniquely underserved population and fill important gaps in 
evidence-based prevention services and medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorder. 
Ultimately, this project will be effective in improving health outcomes for people impacted by 
opioid use disorder and reducing risks to the broader Josephine County community. 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Jerry O’Sullivan 
 
Jerry O'Sullivan, MBA 
Chief of Regional Business Operations 
Adapt Integrated Health Care 
  
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR JOSEPHINE COUNTY 
STATE OF OREGON
In the Matter of an Appointment to the
)
Josephine County Economic Development           )
Resolution No. 2026-035
Grant Advisory Committee 
)
  
WHEREAS, it has come to the attention of the Board of County Commissioners that there are vacancies 
on the Josephine County Economic Development Grant Advisory Committee; and
WHEREAS, it is both proper and necessary that the Board of County Commissioners fill said vacancies 
by making appointments as provided herein,
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, that the Josephine County Economic 
Development Grant Advisory Committee consist of a five-member Board, and that the following persons 
be appointed to said Josephine County Economic Development Grant Advisory Committee with terms 
expiring as hereinafter set forth.
1. Jay Doque – Position One (1) Business Owner. Term expires September 15, 2027
2. Sherri Breslin – Position Two (2) Business Owner. Term expires September 15, 2027
3. Roger Singer – Position Three (3) At Large. Term expires September 15, 2027
4. Connie Roach – Position Four (4) At Large. Term expires September 15, 2027
5. Tom Bradbeer – Position Five (5) At Large. Term expires September 15, 2027
DONE and DATED this 15th day of September 2026.
JOSEPHINE COUNTY 
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
_______________________________________
Ron A. Smith, Chair
_______________________________________
Colene M. Martin, Vice Chair
________________________________________
Gary L. Richardson, Commissioner
Item 3b
JOSEPHINE COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Josephine County Courthouse  •  500 NW 6th Street  •  Grants Pass, Oregon 97526
(541) 474-5221
[DATE], 2026
Submitted electronically via the Federal eRulemaking Portal (www.regulations.gov)
Joshua White, Acting Director
Ecosystem Management Coordination
USDA Forest Service
201 14th Street SW, Mailstop 1108
Washington, DC 20250-1124
RE:  Comments of the Josephine County Board of Commissioners on the Proposed Rule, 
“Special Areas; Roadless Area Conservation” (RIN 0596-AD66; Docket No. FS-2025-0001)
Dear Acting Director White:
The Josephine County Board of Commissioners submits these comments on the proposed 
rescission of the 2001 Roadless Area Conservation Rule and the accompanying draft 
environmental impact statement.
Josephine County supports the proposed rule’s stated objective: returning management direction 
for inventoried roadless areas to the forest-level planning process, informed by the people who 
live with the results. But local decision-making is only meaningful if local government is 
actually in the room. The Board’s support is therefore conditioned on the commitments requested 
below, and these comments are intended to secure a formal, continuing role for county 
government in whatever framework follows, whether the 2001 rule is rescinded, retained, or 
replaced.
Josephine County’s stake. Federal agencies manage roughly two-thirds of the land in Josephine 
County: the U.S. Forest Service approximately 39 percent, chiefly within the Rogue River-
Siskiyou National Forest, and the Bureau of Land Management approximately 27 percent, 
chiefly within the Medford District. County GIS analysis identifies approximately 140,680 acres 
of inventoried roadless area within Josephine County, roughly a third of the National Forest 
System land in the county, concentrated along the county’s western edge and around the Oregon 
Caves area, flanking the Illinois Valley communities (map enclosed). Federal land management 
decisions therefore reach every part of county government: public safety, roads, emergency 
management, water, and the tax base.
Our history makes the point. As an O&C county, Josephine County built its public services on 
shared federal timber receipts. When those receipts collapsed and Secure Rural Schools 
payments lapsed in 2012, this County, which had relied on those payments for roughly 70 
percent of its public-safety budget, cut sheriff’s patrols to levels that drew national attention, and 
Item 3c
we have struggled to fund public safety ever since. Few counties in America have paid a higher 
price for federal forest policy made without a county seat at the table.
Wildfire is the other half of our stake. The 2002 Biscuit Fire burned roughly 500,000 acres, 
including much of the Kalmiopsis, and remains among the largest fires in Oregon’s recorded 
history. In 2018, the Taylor Creek and Klondike fires forced evacuations across the county and 
put smoke over our communities for weeks. Communities such as Cave Junction, Selma, 
O’Brien, Takilma, Williams, Merlin, Galice, and Wolf Creek sit in or near the wildland-urban 
interface.
Road condition on federal land is part of that risk. Two cross-connections between Williams and 
the Illinois Valley, each with county-maintained roads on both ends and federally managed road 
in between, illustrate the point. The Cedar Flat Road to Deer Creek Road route crosses about 15 
miles of paved federal road; it is narrow in places but generally serviceable as an evacuation 
alternative. The Caves Camp Road to Caves Highway route is not: its federal middle section 
includes roughly 10 miles of poorly maintained gravel crossing Forest Service and BLM 
jurisdiction. If a fire compromises the primary highway corridors, connections like these are 
what rural residents have left, and whether they function depends on federal maintenance 
decisions the County does not control.
At the same time, our economy depends on these lands being intact as well as managed. The 
Rogue and Illinois River systems support outfitters, guides, anglers, hunters, and a visitor 
economy, and they supply domestic and municipal water. The County’s interest is not timber 
versus recreation; it is competent management that protects both.
What the proposal does, and does not, do here. The Board notes, as the Department itself 
states, that rescission “does not authorize any specific ground-disturbing projects.” On the Rogue 
River-Siskiyou, management direction would continue to be set by the forest plan as amended by 
the Northwest Forest Plan, whose current amendment process is not expected to produce a record 
of decision until early 2028. Designated wilderness (including the Kalmiopsis and Wild Rogue) 
and Wild and Scenic River corridors are unaffected by this rule either way.
The practical consequence is that the decisions that will actually affect Josephine County will be 
made in forest planning and project-level processes after this rule is finalized. That is precisely 
where county government must have a defined role, and it is why the Board requests the 
following commitments in the final rule and record of decision.
Requests of the Department.
1.
Formal county coordination. Commit to coordination with county governments consistent 
with the National Forest Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1604(a), and offer counties 
cooperating-agency status in this EIS and in subsequent Rogue River-Siskiyou plan 
amendments, revisions, and project-level NEPA review affecting inventoried roadless 
areas. Coordination should include early notification, shared data, and participation before 
alternatives are fixed, not comment periods after the fact.
2.
Explain the interaction with the Northwest Forest Plan. The final rule should state 
clearly how rescission interacts with Northwest Forest Plan land-use allocations and with 
the plan amendment now underway. It should also commit that roadless-area management 
direction for this forest will be developed through that public planning process, with 
counties and Tribes at the table, rather than through ad hoc project-by-project decisions.
3.
Put community protection first. If the rule is finalized, the first use of any new flexibility 
on this forest should be hazardous-fuels reduction, suppression access, and evacuation-route 
reliability in and near the wildland-urban interface. The Department’s analysis finds that 
approximately 9.8 million acres (24 percent of affected roadless areas) overlap the 
wildland-urban interface. Publish that analysis at the forest level, publish the prioritization 
criteria, and commit that community-protection work goes to the front of the line.
4.
Exercise fiscal discipline on roads. The Department’s analysis acknowledges a $6.9 
billion deferred-maintenance backlog for Forest Service roads and bridges. Josephine 
County knows what deferred maintenance does to a road system and a budget. Do not 
construct new permanent roads without identified maintenance funding; prioritize 
maintenance and reconstruction of strategically important existing routes, beginning with 
evacuation cross-connections like those identified above; prefer temporary roads where 
they serve the purpose; and ensure federal projects do not shift traffic, damage, or 
maintenance costs onto county roads.
5.
Protect water sources. Commit that source watersheds for municipal and domestic water 
supplies (in this county, the Rogue and Illinois River systems) receive explicit protection in 
plan direction and project design, with monitoring results available for county review.
6.
Analyze the recreation economy at a scale that means something. The draft analysis 
estimates roughly $6.1 million per year in lost recreation-related economic benefit 
nationally. Provide forest- and county-scale analysis of recreation and tourism effects, and 
commit that high-value backcountry recreation settings on the Rogue River-Siskiyou will 
not be degraded without prior consultation with affected counties.
7.
Provide county-level fiscal data. The Department has requested comment on baselines and 
the range of impacts; counties cannot respond meaningfully without forest-scale data. 
Publish the timber, recreation, and revenue data underlying the draft analysis at the forest 
level, and analyze effects on receipts shared with counties.
8.
Build something durable. A national rule rescinded by one administration can be 
reinstated by the next; counties cannot plan around policy that reverses every four years. 
The Department should therefore remain open to a tailored state- or forest-specific 
framework developed with the State of Oregon, Tribes, and affected counties through the 
petition process the proposed rule itself identifies (5 U.S.C. 553(e); 7 CFR 1.28), on the 
model of the Idaho and Colorado rules. Josephine County expresses its interest in that 
approach, asks to be a full participant in any such effort affecting the Rogue River-
Siskiyou, and requests direct notice of all related hearings and consultations.
Closing. Josephine County offers the Department its data and its partnership: county GIS, 
emergency-management planning, road inventories, and the lived experience of a county that has 
carried the costs of federal forest decisions for a generation. Whatever the Department decides 
about the 2001 rule, the measure of this rulemaking for Josephine County will be whether local 
government ends up with a genuine role in the decisions that follow. We ask that the 
commitments above be reflected in the final rule and record of decision.
Please direct questions or requests for county data to [staff contact name, title, phone, email].
Respectfully submitted,
JOSEPHINE COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
_________________________________
Ron Smith, Chair
_________________________________
Colene Martin, Vice Chair
_________________________________
Gary Richardson, Commissioner
Approved at a public meeting of the Board of Commissioners on [DATE], 2026.
Enclosure: Roadless Areas in Josephine County (map, Josephine County GIS, 2026)
±
0
2
4
6
8
10
Miles
Roadless Areas in Josephine County
County Line
Roadless Areas - Rogue Siskiyou National Forest