APPROVED ON APRIL 8, 2026  
BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS 
AT THE WEEKLY BUSINESS SESSION 
 
County Administration Workshop: March 31, 2026 
1:30 p.m. – Board of Commissioners Conference Room 
Attending: Commissioners Ron Smith; Colene Martin; Gary Richardson; and Kassie Austin, Recorder 
 
Chair Ron Smith called the meeting to order at 1:30 p.m. 
 
1. Declaration of Potential Conflicts of Interest 
Commissioner Richardson explained that a family member has applied for an advisory committee (Agenda Item 
3A), and he declared a potential conflict of interest. The remaining board declared there are no potential conflicts 
of interest.  
2. Department Business 
a. Information Technology 
1. Josephine County Back Up Services Quote in the Amount of $108,181.79 
Ken Clever, Interim Information Technology Director, discussed that his department looked at several options for the hard 
drive. The county’s hard drive is beginning their end of life for data. The replacement was in the current budget. Discussion 
was held regarding the importance of ransomware. Out of all the options that Information Technology researched, this 
option was the most fiscally responsible option that meets the county’s needs. Mr. Clever spoke on the maintenance and 
testing that is done in their department to stay on top of potential threats. The board directed staff to directed to move this 
to the next weekly business session under the consent calendar. 
b. Community Development 
1. Out of State Travel Request 
Frank Wharregard, County Building Official explained that there is an employee that was invited to a leadership 
academy. The only cost for the employee to attend is the mileage to the airports, and per diem. The organization 
picks up the airfare, lodging, and conference costs. The total cost is $291.00. The board approved the out-of-state 
travel request without objection.  
 
      2.   Rose Butte LLC Findings of Fact and Decision/CPZC and Goal Exception  
Tami Smith, Josephine County Senior Planner, explained that the board approved the land use hearing on March 9, 2026. 
The board directed staff to move the findings of fact to the consent calendar at the weekly business session.  
c. Airport 
1. Board Order 2026-018; In the Matter of Delegation of Signing Authority to the Interim Airports 
Manager 
Cherie Jadot, Interim Airport Manager, explained that this board order allows the manager to sign the leases, and other 
regular daily business on behalf of the county. This board order has been signed before allowing the Airport Manager to 
sign documents, and this board order allows the interim director to proceed with daily business. The board moved this matter 
to the weekly business session under administrative action.  
2. Illinois Valley Airport Fuel Farm Contract Award to All Construction Elements, LLC in the Amount 
of $566,328.27 
Ms. Jadot explained that this matter went through the bidding processes, and the contract was awarded to the All 
Construction Elements LLC. Ms. Jadot discussed the process of the Fuel Farm, and the management of the project staying 
within the Josephine County Airports oversight, instead of an independent FBO. Discussion was held regarding hiring an 
employee to oversee the program, and the benefits of the airports to review the program in lieu of a FBO. The board moved 
this matter to the weekly business session under administrative action.  
3. Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration Agreement in the Amount of 
$35,006.83 
Ms. Jadot explained that this agreement is a flight inspection for the new runway extension. This is a requirement when 
there is major construction on a runway. Ms. Jadot explained that if the inspection does not cost the full estimated amount, 
then the Federal Aviation Administration may reimburse the county. This matter was moved to the weekly business session 
the consent calendar. 
 
County Administration Workshop 
                       March 31, 2026                                    Page 2 of 3 
 
d. Public Works 
1. Fish Hatchery Road Guardrail Replacement Estimate in the Amount of 86,393.20 
Richard Pike, Public Works Manager, explained that this is a project will be handled in house. The materials 
alone are the $86,393.20, however when labor is factored into the project it is estimated to cost $102,000.00. 
There is currently an insurance claim on this matter, and if the insurance claim does not pay for the project, the 
funding will be coming from the public works budget. Commissioner Martin made a motion to approve 
Guardrail replacement  project in the amount of $86,393.20. Commissioner Richardson seconded the motion. 
Upon roll call; Commissioner Martin – yes, Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Smith – yes. 
Motion carried 3-0. 
2. Bearcat Manufacturing Quote in the Amount of $435,382.00 
Mr. Pike reviewed that Public Works budgeted for this purchase in the amount of $297,000.00, Since that time, the cost 
has been raised exponentially. At this time the equipment purchase would replace the Chasis for the department. The older 
equipment would be auctioned off. The public works department fund would be used by the gas tax. Discussion was held 
regarding the benefits of purchasing the whole package, in lieu of just the truck. Commissioner Martin made a motion 
to approve the purchase in the amount of $435,382.00. Commissioner Richardson seconded the motion. Upon 
roll call; Commissioner Martin – yes, Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Smith – yes. Motion 
carried 3-0. 
3. Public Works Fuel Station Underground Fuel Tanks Clean Up Proposal in the Amount of $16,900.00 
Mr. Pike recently brought the decommission of the old underground fuel tanks. Before the decommission can take place, 
the fuel tanks must be cleaned and test the soil. Mr. Pike explained that it takes special equipment and this bid is separate 
from the company that is actually moving forward with the decommissioning of the tanks. The board requested that in the 
future when there are multiple steps to a project that they get brought forward at the same time. Commissioner Martin 
made a motion to approve the clean up in the amount of $16,900.00. Commissioner Richardson seconded the 
motion. Upon roll call; Commissioner Martin – yes, Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Smith – 
yes. Motion carried 3-0. 
4. Vehicle Purchase Invoice – Sheriff Office three (3) in the Amount of $173,678.76   
Mr. Pike explained that this was already previously budgeted. The county has received the vehicles for the sheriff’s office, 
and they are being upfitted now. This matter is just approving the invoices for the vehicles that the board has already 
authorized and budgeted for. Commissioner Martin made a motion to approve the invoices in the amount of 
$173,678.76. Commissioner Richardson seconded the motion. Upon roll call; Commissioner Martin – yes, 
Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Smith – yes. Motion carried 3-0. 
e. Human Resources 
Commissioner Richardson moved to move agenda item per OAR  
  
Commissioner Richardson recommended a hiring freeze for the remainder of fiscal year. Commissioner Smith stated that 
he feels that department heads should have input on this topic. Commissioner Richardson made a motion that the county 
has a hiring pause until the next fiscal year budget is finalized with the exception of if a department has a critical need to 
hire a position they may come to the board for approval and any currently approved job postings will continue to be filled. 
Commissioner Martin seconded the motion. Upon roll call; Commissioner Richardson – yes, Commissioner Martin – yes, 
Commissioner Smith – yes. Motion carried.  
1.     Personnel Requisitions 
a. 
Treasury, Accounting Specialist – Treasury, Add Position, Replace Existing Classification, 
and Update Job Description  
b. 
Veterans Services, Veterans Program Assistant Manager Changing Job Description 
c. 
Veterans Services, Veterans Services Officer, Changing Job Description and Title 
2. Personnel Actions 
 
 
a.        Corrections, Parole/Probation Officer, New Hire 
 
 
b.        Veterans Services, Veterans Program Assistant Manager, Reclass Up 
 
 
c.        Veterans Services, Veterans Service Officer, Reclass Up 
 
Michelle Shaw, Human Resources Director, asked for clarity, moving forward to bring the directors that are asking for their 
positions to be filled. The board agreed that directors should attend moving forward. Dustin Calvo, Treasurer explained his 
County Administration Workshop 
                       March 31, 2026                                    Page 3 of 3 
 
need for the vacated position. Tax season is coming, currently the treasurer’s office only runs with 4 FTE and that includes 
the treasurer. Lisa Pickart, Veterans Services, discussed the need to reclass up on two positions for her office. The board 
approved the personnel requisitions. Discussion was held on waiting to approve the veterans’ services personnel actions in 
July, once the fiscal year budget is approved. Both Commissioner Martin and Commissioner Smith signed the personnel 
actions forms.  
3. BOARD BUSINESS 
A. Advisory Committee Applications 
Commissioner Martin made a motion to approve the bikeways and walkways application. Commissioner Smith seconded 
the motion. Upon roll call, Commissioner Richardson – abstained, Commissioner Martin – yes, Commissioner Smith – yes. 
Motion carried 2-0.  
B. Board Meeting Schedules 
The board approved by sending a memo to directors and department heads stating that all documents must be submitted to 
the board 48 hours before a meeting, otherwise their agenda item will be postponed. Discussion also took place about what 
should and should not be moved forward to a weekly business session. The board would like staff to have legal give an 
input on this matter at the next administrative workshop. 
4. OTHER 
Commissioner Martin brought forward the stop payment check and discussed obligations. The matter has been handled, and 
the bank has been reimbursed. Mr. Kirpatrick gets to keep the truck and move forward with his economic development plan.  
5. ADDITIONAL SUBJECT MATTERS FROM COMMISSIONERS/ANNOUNCEMENTS: 
None heard.  
 
The meeting adjourned at 3:42 p.m.