Item 3a
Item 3b
Order No. 2026-021 
 
 
 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR JOSEPHINE COUNTY 
 
STATE OF OREGON 
 
 
In the Matter of Authorization of the 
) 
Sale of County Real Property Not in 
) 
 
ORDER NO. 2026-021 
Use for County Purposes  
 
) 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, Josephine County is the owner of a certain parcel of real property 
located at 210 Tacoma Street, Grants Pass, Oregon, which property is more particularly 
described as follows: 
 
Parcel 1 of Partition Plat No. 2026-9 in Josephine County, Oregon 
 
WHEREAS, the Property was not acquired by means of foreclosure for 
nonpayment of property taxes, and it is not to the best interest of the county to sell and 
convey in the manner provided under ORS 275.120, 275.140 to 275.160 and 275.180 to 
275.260; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, ORS 275.030(2) grants specific authority to the County to sell and 
convey the Property in a manner other than by auction; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has determined that it is in the best 
interest of the County to sell and convey the above-described real property, that is not in 
use for County purposes, by private sale at current market prices, as authorized by 
ORS 275.030(2); and 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, on October 7, 2025, during the County Administration Workshop, the 
Board of Commissioners approved listing the property for sale and on March 17, 2026 
an offer to purchase from Teen Challenge International Pacific Northwest Centers, was 
presented to the Board of Commissioners and approved; and 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED as follows: 
 
1. 
The county land parcel, described above, shall be sold at private sale, without 
further notice, pursuant to ORS 275.030(2), for the amount and under the terms 
set out as follows: 
 
2. 
The gross proceeds from the sales are as follows: 
 
 
 
a.   Cash Sales: $660,000, less title and escrow fees, and any other  
 
      related fees. 
 
3. 
Distribution of the gross proceeds from the sale shall be made as follows: 
 
Item 3c
Order No. 2026-021 
 
3.1 
The County Finance Director is hereby directed to deduct from the gross 
proceeds and distribute the amounts as follows: 
 
a. 
Reimbursement to Fund 473910-37300, Facilities Property 
Reserve, for expenses incurred for the lot line adjustment and 
surveying of the property. 
 
b. 
Reimbursement to Fund 471930-37300, Property Management 
Property Reserve, for expenses incurred for Application fees and 
surveying of the property. 
 
c. 
Reimbursement to Fund 514510-37300, Airports, for the pre-app 
review fee to Planning. 
 
d. 
Ten percent (10%) of funds remaining after reimbursements, to 
Fund 40-1930, Property Management, for property management 
administrative costs incurred in the inventory, supervision and sale 
of the property. 
 
e. 
The remaining proceeds from the sale shall be distributed to Fund 
53, the Airports.   
 
4. 
The Josephine County Board of Commissioners hereby designates its Chair to 
execute all documents necessary to complete the sale. 
 
DONE and DATED this             day of April, 2026. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JOSEPHINE COUNTY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
____________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ron Smith, Chair 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
____________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Colene Martin, Vice Chair 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
____________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gary Richardson, Commissioner 
 
 
 
Approved as to form: 
 
                                                          
Wally Hicks, Legal Counsel  
 
 
Josephine County 
500 NW 6th Street 
Grants Pass, Oregon 97526 
Grantor’s Name and Address 
 
 
 
 
 
After recording return document and send 
tax statements to: 
Teen 
Challenge 
International 
Pacific 
Northwest Centers DBA: Adult and Teen 
Challenge Pacwest 
18600 SE Mcloughlin Blvd. 
Milwaukie, OR 97267 
Grantee’s Name and Address 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WARRANTY  DEED 
 
Josephine County, a political subdivision of the State of Oregon, Grantor, conveys and warrants 
to Teen Challenge International Pacific Northwest Centers (dba: Adult and Teen Challenge 
Pacwest), an Oregon Company, Grantee, the following described real property free of liens and 
encumbrances, except as specifically set forth herein:  
 
Parcel 1 of Partition Plat No.  2026-9 in Josephine County, Oregon. 
 
Situs: 210 Tacoma Street, Grants Pass, Oregon. 
 
BEFORE SIGNING OR ACCEPTING THIS INSTRUMENT, THE PERSON TRANSFERRING FEE TITLE 
SHOULD INQUIRE ABOUT THE PERSON’S RIGHTS, IF ANY, UNDER ORS 195.300, 195.301 AND 195.305 
TO 195.336 AND SECTIONS 5 TO 11, CHAPTER 424, OREGON LAWS 2007, SECTIONS 2 TO 9 AND 17, 
CHAPTER 855, OREGON LAWS 2009, AND SECTIONS 2 TO 7, CHAPTER 8, OREGON LAWS 2010. THIS 
INSTRUMENT DOES NOT ALLOW USE OF THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN THIS INSTRUMENT IN 
VIOLATION OF APPLICABLE LAND USE LAWS AND REGULATIONS. BEFORE SIGNING OR ACCEPTING 
THIS INSTRUMENT, THE PERSON ACQUIRING FEE TITLE TO THE PROPERTY SHOULD CHECK WITH 
THE APPROPRIATE CITY OR COUNTY PLANNING DEPARTMENT TO VERIFY THAT THE UNIT OF 
LAND BEING TRANSFERRED IS A LAWFULLY ESTABLISHED LOT OR PARCEL, AS DEFINED IN ORS 
92.010 OR 215.010, TO VERIFY THE APPROVED USES OF THE LOT OR PARCEL, TO DETERMINE ANY 
LIMITS ON LAWSUITS AGAINST FARMING OR FOREST PRACTICES, AS DEFINED IN ORS 30.930, AND 
TO INQUIRE ABOUT THE RIGHTS OF NEIGHBORING PROPERTY OWNERS, IF ANY, UNDER ORS 
195.300, 195.301 AND 195.305 TO 195.336 AND SECTIONS 5 TO 11, CHAPTER 424, OREGON LAWS 2007, 
SECTIONS 2 TO 9 AND 17, CHAPTER 855, OREGON LAWS 2009, AND SECTIONS 2 TO 7, CHAPTER 8, 
OREGON LAWS 2010. 
 
The true consideration for this conveyance is $660,000. 
 
The Order of the Board of Commissioners of Josephine County authorizing this sale pursuant to 
ORS 275.225, is dated ________________, 2026, and recorded in the Board of Commissioners’ 
Journal as Order No. 2026-021. 
  
In Witness Whereof, the grantor has executed this instrument this ____ day of April, 2026. 
 
 
             
 
STATE OF OREGON  
) 
 
 
 
 
) ss. 
County of Josephine 
 
) 
 
 
This instrument was acknowledged before me on this           day 
of April, 2026, by                                                                 
                                                                                                       
as members of the Josephine County Board of Commissioners. 
  
 
                  
                                                               
              Notary Public for Oregon 
                
 
My Commission Expires:                     
 
 
 
      
Grantor: 
JOSEPHINE COUNTY 
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS 
 
                                                                      
Ron Smith, Chair 
 
                                                                      
Colene Martin, Vice-Chair 
 
                                                                      
Gary Richardson, Commissioner 
 
Date:                                                              
 
1 
 
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT 
This Franchise Agreement (“Franchise”) is between the Josephine County of Oregon, 
hereinafter referred to as the “Grantor” and Spectrum Pacific West, LLC, locally known as 
CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS, hereinafter referred to as the “Grantee.” 
WHEREAS, the Grantor finds that the Grantee has substantially complied with the 
material terms of the current Franchise under applicable laws, and that the financial, legal and 
technical ability of the Grantee is sufficient to provide services, facilities and equipment necessary 
to meet the future cable-related needs of the community; and 
WHEREAS, having afforded the public adequate notice and opportunity for comment, 
Grantor desires to enter into this Franchise with the Grantee for the construction and operation of 
a cable system on the terms set forth herein; and  
WHEREAS, the Grantor and Grantee have complied with all federal and State-mandated 
procedural and substantive requirements pertinent to this franchise renewal; 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Grantor and Grantee agree as follows: 
SECTION 1 
Definition of Terms 
1.1 
Terms.  For the purpose of this franchise the following terms, phrases, words and their 
derivations shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Cable Communications Policy Act of 
1984, as amended from time to time (the “Cable Act”), unless otherwise defined herein.  When 
not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the 
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural 
number.  The word “shall” is mandatory and “may” is permissive.  Words not defined shall be 
given their common and ordinary meaning. 
A. 
“Cable System,” “Cable Service,” and “Basic Cable Service” shall be defined as 
set forth in the Cable Act. 
B. 
“Board” shall mean the governing body of the Grantor. 
C. 
“Cable Act” shall mean the Cable Communication Policy Act of 1984, as amended, 
47 U.S.C. §§ 521, et. seq. 
D. 
 “Channel” shall mean a portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum which 
is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a television channel. 
E. 
“Equipment” shall mean any poles, wires, cable, antennae, underground conduits, 
manholes, and other conductors, fixtures, equipment and other facilities used for 
the maintenance and operation of physical facilities located in the Streets, including 
the Cable System. 
Item 3d
 
2 
 
F. 
“FCC” shall mean the Federal Communications Commission and any successor 
governmental entity thereto. 
G. 
“Franchise” shall mean the non-exclusive rights granted pursuant to this Franchise 
to construct operate and maintain a Cable System along the public ways within all 
or a specified area in the Franchise Area. 
H. 
“Gross Revenue” means any revenue, as determined in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, received by the Grantee from the operation of the 
Cable System to provide Cable Services in the Franchise Area, provided, however, 
that such phrase shall not include:  (1) any taxes, fees or assessments collected by 
the Grantee from Subscribers for pass-through to a government agency, including, 
without limitation, any state or federal regulatory fees, the franchise fee, or any 
sales or utility taxes; (2) unrecovered bad debt; (3) credits, refunds and deposits 
paid to Subscribers; (4) any exclusions available under applicable State law.  
I. 
“Person” shall mean an individual, partnership, association, organization, 
corporation, trust or governmental entity. 
J. 
“Service Area” shall mean the area described in subsection 6.1 hereto. 
K. 
“Standard Installation” shall mean installations to residences and buildings that are 
located up to 125 feet from the point of connection to Grantee’s existing distribution 
system. 
L. 
“State” shall mean the State of Oregon. 
M. 
“Street” shall include each of the following located within the Franchise Area:  
public streets, roadways, highways, bridges, land paths, boulevards, avenues, lanes, 
alleys, sidewalks, circles, drives, easements, rights of way and similar public ways 
and extensions and additions thereto, including but not limited to public utility 
easements, dedicated utility strips, or rights-of-way dedicated for compatible uses 
now or hereafter held by the Grantor in the Franchise Area, which shall entitle the 
Grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of installing, operating, extending, 
repairing and maintaining the Cable System. 
N. 
“Subscriber” shall mean any Person lawfully receiving Cable Service from the 
Grantee. 
SECTION 2 
Grant of Franchise 
2.1 
Grant.  The Grantor hereby grants to the Grantee a nonexclusive Franchise which 
authorizes the Grantee to erect, construct, extend, operate and maintain in, upon, along, across, 
above, over and under the Streets, now in existence and as may be created or established during 
its terms, all Equipment, including the Cable System.  Nothing in this Franchise shall be construed 
to prohibit the Grantee from offering any service over its Cable System that is not prohibited by 
federal or State law. 
 
3 
 
2.2 
Term.  The Franchise and the rights, privileges and authority hereby granted shall be for 
an initial term of ten (10) years, commencing on the Effective Date of this Franchise as set forth 
in Section 14.12.  This Franchise will be automatically extended for an additional term of five (5) 
years, unless either party notifies the other in writing of its desire to not exercise this automatic 
extension (and enter renewal negotiations under the Cable Act) at least three (3) years before the 
expiration of this Franchise.  If such a notice is given, the parties will then proceed under the 
federal Cable Act renewal procedures. 
2.3 
Police Powers.  The Grantee agrees to comply with the terms of any lawfully adopted 
generally applicable local ordinance necessary to the safety, health, and welfare of the public, to 
the extent that the provisions of the ordinance do not have the effect of limiting the benefits or 
expanding the obligations of the Grantee that are granted by this Franchise.  This Franchise is a 
contract and except as to those changes which are the result of the Grantor’s lawful exercise of its 
general police power, the Grantor may not take any unilateral action which materially changes the 
mutual promises in this contract.   
2.4 
Cable System Franchise Required.  No Cable System shall be allowed to occupy or use 
the streets or public rights-of-way of the Franchise Area or be allowed to operate without a Cable 
System Franchise. 
SECTION 3 
Franchise Renewal 
3.1 
Procedures for Renewal.  The Grantor and the Grantee agree that any proceedings 
undertaken by the Grantor that relate to the renewal of the Grantee’s Franchise shall be governed 
by and comply with the provisions of Section 626 of the Cable Act, or any such successor statute. 
SECTION 4 
Indemnification and Insurance 
4.1 
Indemnification.  The Grantee shall, by acceptance of the Franchise granted herein, defend 
the Grantor, its officers, boards, commissions, agents, and employees for all claims for injury to 
any Person or property caused by the negligence of Grantee in the construction or operation of the 
Cable System and in the event of a determination of liability shall indemnify and hold Grantor, its 
officers, boards, commissions, agents, and employees harmless from any and all liabilities, claims, 
demands, or judgments growing out of any injury to any Person or property as a result of the 
negligence of Grantee arising out of the construction, repair, extension, maintenance, operation or 
removal of its wires, poles or other equipment of any kind or character used in connection with the 
operation of the Cable System, provided that the Grantor shall give the Grantee written notice of 
its obligation to indemnify the Grantor within ten (10) days of receipt of a claim or action pursuant 
to this section.  In the event any such claim arises, the Grantor shall tender the defense thereof to 
the Grantee and the Grantee shall have the right to defend, settle or compromise any claims arising 
hereunder and the Grantor shall cooperate fully herein.  If the Grantor determines in good faith 
that its interests cannot be represented by the Grantee, the Grantee shall be excused from any 
obligation to represent the Grantor.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Grantee shall not be 
obligated to indemnify the Grantor for any damages, liability or claims resulting from the willful 
 
4 
 
misconduct or negligence of the Grantor or for the Grantor’s use of the Cable System, including 
any PEG channels. 
4.2 
Insurance. 
A. 
The Grantee shall maintain throughout the term of the Franchise insurance in 
amounts at least as follows: 
Workers’ Compensation 
Statutory Limits 
Commercial General Liability 
$1,000,000 per occurrence, 
$2,000,000 General Aggregate 
Auto Liability including coverage on 
all owned, non-owned hired autos  
$1,000,000 per occurrence Combined 
Single Limit 
Umbrella Liability 
$1,000,000 per occurrence 
B. 
The Grantor shall be added as an additional insured, arising out of work performed 
by Charter, to the above Commercial General Liability, Auto Liability and 
Umbrella Liability insurance coverage. 
C. 
The Grantee shall furnish the Grantor with current certificates of insurance 
evidencing such coverage upon request. 
SECTION 5 
Service Obligations 
5.1 
No Discrimination.  Grantee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise discriminate 
against Subscribers, Channel users, or general citizens on the basis of race, color, religion, national 
origin, age or sex. 
5.2 
Privacy.  The Grantee shall fully comply with the privacy rights of Subscribers as 
contained in Cable Act Section 631 (47 U.S.C. § 551). 
SECTION 6 
Service Availability 
6.1 
Service Area.  Subject to applicable law, the Grantee shall continue to provide Cable 
Service to all residences within the Franchise Area where Grantee currently provides Cable Service 
(the “Service Area”).   Grantee shall have the right, but not the obligation, to extend the Cable 
System into any other portion of the Franchise Area, including annexed areas.  Cable Service 
offered to Subscribers pursuant to this Franchise shall be conditioned upon Grantee having legal 
access on reasonable terms and conditions to any such Subscriber’s dwelling unit or other units 
wherein such Cable Service is provided. 
6.2 
New Development Underground.  In cases of new construction or property development 
where utilities are to be placed underground, the Grantor agrees to require as a condition of issuing 
 
5 
 
a permit for open trenching to any developer or property owner that such developer or property 
owner give Grantee at least thirty (30) days prior written notice of such construction or 
development, and of the particular dates on which open trenching will be available for Grantee’s 
installation of conduit, pedestals and/or vaults, and laterals to be provided at Grantee’s expense.  
Grantee shall also provide specifications as needed for trenching.  Costs of trenching and 
easements required to bring service to the development shall be borne by the developer or property 
owner; except that if Grantee fails to install its conduit, pedestals and/or vaults, and laterals within 
fifteen (15) working days of the date the trenches are available, as designated in the written notice 
given by the developer or property owner, then should the trenches be closed after the fifteen day 
period, the cost of new trenching is to be borne by Grantee. 
6.3 
Annexation.  The Grantor shall promptly provide written notice to the Grantee of its 
annexation of any territory which is being provided Cable Service by the Grantee or its affiliates.  
Such annexed area will be subject to the provisions of this Franchise upon sixty (60) days’ written 
notice from the Grantor, subject to the conditions set forth below and Section 6.1 above.  The 
Grantor shall also notify Grantee in writing of all new street address assignments or changes within 
the Franchise Area.  Grantee shall within ninety (90) days after receipt of the annexation notice, 
pay the Grantor franchise fees on revenue received from the operation of the Cable System to 
provide Cable Services in any area annexed by the Grantor if the Grantor has provided a written 
annexation notice that includes the addresses that will be moved into the Franchise Area in an 
Excel format or in a format that will allow Grantee to change its billing system.  If the annexation 
notice does not include the addresses that will be moved into the Franchise Area, Grantee shall 
pay franchise fees within ninety (90) days after it receives the annexed addresses as set forth above.  
All notices due under this section shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested to the 
addresses set forth in Section 14.7 with a copy to the Director of Government Affairs.  In any audit 
of franchise fees due under this Franchise, Grantee shall not be liable for franchise fees on annexed 
areas unless and until Grantee has received notification and information that meets the standards 
set forth in this section. 
SECTION 7 
Construction and Technical Standards 
7.1 
Compliance with Codes.  All construction practices and installation of equipment shall be 
done in accordance with all applicable sections of the National Electric Safety Code. 
7.2 
Construction Standards and Requirements.  All of the Grantee’s Equipment shall be 
installed, located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed, repaired, maintained and 
operated in accordance with good engineering practices and performed by experienced 
maintenance and construction personnel. 
7.3 
Safety.  The Grantee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall use commonly 
accepted methods and devices preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage. 
7.4 
Network Technical Requirements.  The Cable System shall be designed, constructed and 
operated so as to meet those technical standards adopted by the FCC relating to Cable Systems 
contained in part 76 of the FCC’s rules and regulations as may be amended from time to time. 
 
6 
 
SECTION 8 
Conditions on Street Occupancy 
8.1 
General Conditions.  Grantee shall have the right to utilize existing poles, conduits and 
other facilities whenever possible, and shall not construct or install any new, different, or additional 
poles, conduits, or other facilities on public property provided Grantee is able to access existing 
poles, conduits, or other facilities on reasonable terms and conditions. 
8.2 
Underground Construction.  The facilities of the Grantee shall be installed underground 
in those Service Areas where existing telephone and electric services are both underground at the 
time of system construction.  In areas where either telephone or electric utility facilities are 
installed aerially at the time of system construction, the Grantee may install its facilities aerially 
with the understanding that at such time as the existing aerial facilities are required to be placed 
underground by the Grantor, the Grantee shall likewise place its facilities underground.  In the 
event Grantor or any agency thereof directly or indirectly reimburses any utility for the placement 
of cable underground or the movement of cable, Grantee shall be similarly reimbursed. 
8.3 
Construction Codes and Permits.  Grantee shall obtain all legally required permits before 
commencing any construction work, including the opening or disturbance of any Street within the 
Franchise Area, provided that such permit requirements are of general applicability and such 
permitting requirements are uniformly and consistently applied by the Grantor as to other public 
utility companies and other entities operating in the Franchise Area.  The Grantor shall cooperate 
with the Grantee in granting any permits required, providing such grant and subsequent 
construction by the Grantee shall not unduly interfere with the use of such Streets.  
Notwithstanding the above, the Grantee may set off any administrative permit fees or other fees 
required by the Grantor related to the Grantee’s use of Grantor rights-of-way against the franchise 
fee payments required under Section 10.1 of this Franchise. 
8.4 
System Construction.  All transmission lines, equipment and structures shall be so 
installed and located as to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable convenience 
of property owners and at all times shall be kept and maintained in a safe, adequate and substantial 
condition, and in good order and repair.  The Grantee shall, at all times, employ ordinary care and 
use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failures and accidents which are likely 
to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances to the public.  Suitable barricades, flags, lights, flares or 
other devices shall be used at such times and places as are reasonably required for the safety of all 
members of the public.  Any poles or other fixtures placed in any public way by the Grantee shall 
be placed in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual travel on such public way. 
8.5 
Restoration of Public Ways.  Grantee shall, at its own expense, restore any damage or 
disturbance caused to the public way as a result of its operation, construction, or maintenance 
of the Cable System to a condition reasonably comparable to the condition of the Streets 
immediately prior to such damage or disturbance. 
8.6 
Removal in Emergency.  Whenever, in case of fire or other disaster, it becomes necessary 
in the judgment of the Grantor to remove any of the Grantee’s facilities, no charge shall be made 
by the Grantee against the Grantor for restoration and repair, unless such acts amount to gross 
negligence by the Grantor. 
 
7 
 
8.7 
Tree Trimming.  Grantee or its designee shall have the authority to trim trees on public 
property at its own expense as may be necessary to protect its wires and facilities. 
8.8 
Relocation for the Grantor.  The Grantee shall, upon receipt of reasonable advance 
written notice, to be not less than ten (10) business days, protect, support, temporarily disconnect, 
relocate, or remove any property of Grantee when lawfully required by the Grantor pursuant to its 
police powers.  Grantee shall be responsible for any costs associated with these obligations to the 
same extent all other users of the Grantor rights-of-way are responsible for the costs related to the 
relocation of their facilities. 
8.9 
Relocation for a Third Party.  The Grantee shall, on the request of any Person holding a 
lawful permit issued by the Grantor, protect, support, raise, lower, temporarily disconnect, relocate 
in or remove from the Street as necessary any property of the Grantee, provided that the expense 
of such is paid by any such Person benefiting from the relocation and the Grantee is given 
reasonable advance written notice to prepare for such changes.  The Grantee may require such 
payment in advance.  For purposes of this subsection, “reasonable advance written notice” shall 
be no less than ten (10) business days in the event of a temporary relocation and no less than one 
hundred twenty (120) days for a permanent relocation. 
8.10 
Reimbursement of Costs.  If funds are available to any Person using the Streets for the 
purpose of defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, the Grantor shall reimburse the Grantee in 
the same manner in which other Persons affected by the requirement are reimbursed.  If the funds 
are controlled by another governmental entity, the Grantor shall make application for such funds 
on behalf of the Grantee. 
8.11 
Emergency Use.  Grantee shall comply with 47 U.S.C. 544(g) and all regulations issued 
pursuant thereto with respect to an Emergency Alert System (“EAS”).   
SECTION 9 
Service and Rates 
9.1 
Phone Service.  The Grantee shall maintain a toll-free telephone number and a phone 
service operated to receive complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments at any time. 
9.2 
Notification of Service Procedures.  The Grantee shall furnish each Subscriber at the time 
service is installed, written instructions that clearly set forth information concerning the procedures 
for making inquiries or complaints, including the Grantee’s name, address and local telephone 
number.  Grantee shall give the Grantor notice of any changes in rates, programming services or 
Channel positions in accordance with applicable law. 
9.3 
Rate Regulation.  Grantor shall have the right to exercise rate regulation to the extent 
authorized by law, or to refrain from exercising such regulation for any period of time, at the sole 
discretion of the Grantor.  If and when exercising rate regulation, the Grantor shall abide by the 
terms and conditions set forth by the FCC.  Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the Grantee’s 
ability to offer or provide bulk rate discounts or promotions. 
 
8 
 
9.4 
Continuity of Service.  It shall be the right of all Subscribers to continue receiving Cable 
Service insofar as their financial and other obligations to the Grantee are honored, and subject to 
Grantee’s rights under Section 14.2 of this Franchise. 
 
SECTION 10 
Franchise Fee 
10.1 
Amount of Fee.  Grantee shall pay to the Grantor an annual franchise fee in an amount 
equal to five percent (5%) of the annual Gross Revenue.  Franchise fees may be passed through to 
Subscribers as a line item on Subscriber bills or otherwise as Grantee chooses, consistent with 
federal law.  The amount of franchise fee and the method of calculation shall be equal when 
compared to the amount or method of calculation of the franchise fee in any other cable franchise 
or authorization to provide video service granted by Grantor.   
10.2 
Payment of Fee.  Payment of the fee due the Grantor shall be made on an annual basis, 
within forty-five (45) days of the close of each calendar year and transmitted by electronic funds 
transfer to a bank account designated by Grantor.  The payment period and the collection of the 
franchise fees that are to be paid to the Grantor pursuant to the Franchise shall commence sixty 
(60) days after the Effective Date of the Franchise as set forth in Section 14.12.  In the event of a 
dispute, the Grantor, if it so requests, shall be furnished a statement of said payment, reflecting the 
Gross Revenues and the applicable charges. 
10.3 
Accord and Satisfaction.  No acceptance of any payment by the Grantor shall be construed 
as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim the Grantor may have for additional sums 
payable as a franchise fee under this Franchise. 
10.4 
Limitation on Recovery.  The period of limitation for recovery of any franchise fee 
payable hereunder shall be three (3) years from the date on which payment by the Grantee was 
due. If any undisputed Franchise payment or recomputed payment is not made on or before the 
dates specified herein, Grantee shall pay an interest charge, computed from the last day of the 
fiscal year in which payment was due, at the annual rate of one (1%) percent over the prime interest 
rate. 
SECTION 11 
Transfer of Franchise 
11.1 
Franchise Transfer.  The Franchise granted hereunder shall not be assigned, other than 
by operation of law or to an entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the 
Grantee, without the prior consent of the Grantor, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld 
or delayed.  No such consent shall be required, however, for a transfer in trust, by mortgage, by 
other hypothecation, or by assignment of any rights, title, or interest of the Grantee in the Franchise 
or Cable System to secure indebtedness.  Within thirty (30) days of receiving a request for transfer, 
the Grantor shall notify the Grantee in writing of any additional information it reasonably requires 
to determine the legal, financial and technical qualifications of the transferee.  If the Grantor has 
not taken action on the Grantee’s request for transfer within one hundred twenty (120) days after 
receiving such request, consent by the Grantor shall be deemed given. 
 
9 
 
SECTION 12 
Records 
12.1 
Inspection of Records.  Grantee shall permit any duly authorized representative of the 
Grantor, upon receipt of advance written notice, to examine during normal business hours and on 
a non-disruptive basis any and all of Grantee’s records maintained by Grantee as is reasonably 
necessary to ensure Grantee’s compliance with the material terms of this Franchise.  Such notice 
shall specifically reference the subsection of the Franchise that is under review so that the Grantee 
may organize the necessary books and records for easy access by the Grantor.  The Grantee shall 
not be required to maintain any books and records for Franchise compliance purposes longer than 
one (1) year, provided that Grantee shall retain books and records relevant to the payment of the 
Franchise Fee for a period of three (3) years.  The Grantee shall not be required to provide 
Subscriber information in violation of Section 631 of the Cable Act.  The Grantor agrees to treat 
as confidential any books, records or maps that constitute proprietary or confidential information 
to the extent Grantee makes the Grantor aware of such confidentiality.  If the Grantor believes it 
must release any such confidential books, records, or maps in the course of enforcing this 
Franchise, or for any other reason, it shall advise Grantee in advance so that Grantee may take 
appropriate steps to protect its interests.  Until otherwise ordered by a court or agency of competent 
jurisdiction, the Grantor agrees that, to the extent permitted by State and federal law, it shall deny 
access to any of Grantee’s books, records, or maps marked confidential, as set forth above, to any 
Person. 
SECTION 13 
Enforcement or Revocation 
13.1 
Notice of Violation.  If the Grantor believes that the Grantee has not complied with the 
terms of the Franchise, the Grantor shall first informally discuss the matter with Grantee.  If these 
discussions do not lead to resolution of the problem, the Grantor shall notify the Grantee in writing 
of the exact nature of the alleged noncompliance (the “Violation Notice”). 
13.2 
Grantee’s Right to Cure or Respond.  The Grantee shall have thirty (30) days from 
receipt of the Violation Notice to (i) respond to the Grantor, contesting the assertion of 
noncompliance, or (ii) to cure such default, or (iii) if, by the nature of default, such default cannot 
be cured within the thirty (30) day period, initiate reasonable steps to remedy such default and 
notify the Grantor of the steps being taken and the projected date that they will be completed. 
13.3 
Public Hearing.  If the Grantee fails to respond to the Violation Notice received from the 
Grantor, or if the default is not remedied within the cure period set forth above, the Board shall 
schedule a public hearing if it intends to continue its investigation into the default.  The Grantor 
shall provide the Grantee at least twenty (20) days prior written notice of such hearing, which 
specifies the time, place and purpose of such hearing, notice of which shall be published by the 
Clerk of the Grantor in a newspaper of general circulation within the Grantor in accordance with 
subsection 14.8 hereof.  At the hearing, the Board shall give the Grantee an opportunity to state its 
position on the matter, present evidence and question witnesses, after which it shall determine 
whether or not the Franchise shall be revoked.  The public hearing shall be on the record and a 
written transcript shall be made available to the Grantee within ten (10) business days.  The 
decision of the Board shall be made in writing and shall be delivered to the Grantee.  The Grantee 
 
10 
 
may appeal such determination to an appropriate court, which shall have the power to review the 
decision of the Board de novo.  The Grantee may continue to operate the Cable System until all 
legal appeals procedures have been exhausted.   
13.4 
Enforcement.  Subject to applicable federal and State law, in the event the Grantor, after 
the hearing set forth in subsection 13.3 above, determines that the Grantee is in default of any 
provision of the Franchise, the Grantor may: 
A. 
Seek specific performance of any provision, which reasonably lends itself to such 
remedy, as an alternative to damages; or 
B. 
Commence an action at law for monetary damages or seek other equitable relief; or 
C. 
In the case of a substantial default of a material provision of the Franchise, seek to 
revoke the Franchise itself in accordance with subsection 13.5 below. 
13.5 
Revocation. 
A. 
Prior to revocation or termination of the Franchise, the Grantor shall give written 
notice to the Grantee of its intent to revoke the Franchise on the basis of a pattern 
of noncompliance by the Grantee, including one or more instances of substantial 
noncompliance with a material provision of the Franchise.  The notice shall set forth 
the exact nature of the noncompliance.  The Grantee shall have sixty (60) days from 
such notice to either object in writing and to state its reasons for such objection and 
provide any explanation or to cure the alleged noncompliance.  If the Grantor has 
not received a satisfactory response from Grantee, it may then seek to revoke the 
Franchise at a public hearing.  The Grantee shall be given at least thirty (30) days 
prior written notice of such public hearing, specifying the time and place of such 
hearing and stating its intent to revoke the Franchise.  The public hearing shall be 
conducted in accordance with the requirements of Section 13.3 above. 
B. 
Notwithstanding the above provisions, the Grantee reserves all of its rights under 
federal law or regulation. 
C. 
Upon revocation of the Franchise, Grantee may remove the Cable System from the 
Streets of the Grantor, or abandon the Cable System in place. 
SECTION 14 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
14.1 
Compliance with Laws.  Grantor and Grantee shall conform to all applicable state and 
federal laws and rules regarding cable television as they become effective. Grantee shall also 
conform with all generally applicable Grantor ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations 
heretofore or hereafter adopted or established during the entire term of the Franchise.  In the event 
of a conflict between Grantor ordinances, resolutions, rules or regulations and the provisions of 
this Franchise, the provisions of this Franchise shall govern. 
 
11 
 
14.2 
Force Majeure.  The Grantee shall not be held in default under, or in noncompliance with 
the provisions of the Franchise, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty relating to noncompliance 
or default, where such noncompliance or alleged defaults occurred or were caused by 
circumstances reasonably beyond the ability of the Grantee to anticipate and control.  This 
provision includes, but is not limited to, severe or unusual weather conditions, fire, flood, or other 
acts of God, strikes, work delays caused by failure of utility providers to service, maintain or 
monitor their utility poles to which Grantee’s Cable System is attached, as well as unavailability 
of materials and/or qualified labor to perform the work necessary. 
14.3 
Minor Violations.  Furthermore, the parties hereby agree that it is not the Grantor’s 
intention to subject the Grantee to forfeitures or revocation of the Franchise for violations of the 
Franchise where the violation was a good faith error that resulted in no or minimal negative impact 
on the Subscribers within the Franchise Area, or where strict performance would result in practical 
difficulties or hardship to the Grantee which outweighs the benefit to be derived by the Grantor 
and/or Subscribers. 
14.4 
Action of Parties.  In any action by the Grantor or the Grantee that is mandated or 
permitted under the terms hereof, such party shall act in a reasonable, expeditious and timely 
manner.  Furthermore, in any instance where approval or consent is required under the terms 
hereof, such approval or consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
14.5 
Equal Protection.  If any other provider of cable services or video services (without regard 
to the technology used to deliver such services) is lawfully authorized by the Grantor or by any 
other State or federal governmental entity to provide such services using facilities located wholly 
or partly in the public rights-of-way of the Grantor, the Grantor shall within thirty (30) days of a 
written request from Grantee, modify this Franchise to insure that the obligations applicable to 
Grantee are no more burdensome than those imposed on the new competing provider.  If the 
Grantor fails to make modifications consistent with this requirement, Grantee’s Franchise shall be 
deemed so modified thirty (30) days after the Grantee’s initial written notice.  As an alternative to 
the Franchise modification request, the Grantee shall have the right and may choose to have this 
Franchise with the Grantor be deemed expired thirty (30) days after written notice to the Grantor.  
Nothing in this Franchise shall impair the right of the Grantee to terminate this Franchise and, at 
Grantee’s option, negotiate a renewal or replacement franchise, license, consent, certificate or 
other authorization with any appropriate government entity.  Nothing in this Section 14.5 shall be 
deemed a waiver of any remedies available to Grantee under federal, state or municipal law, 
including but not limited to Section 625 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 545. 
14.6 
Change in Law.  Notwithstanding any other provision in this Franchise, in the event any 
change to state or federal law occurring during the term of this Franchise eliminates the 
requirement for any person desiring to provide video service or Cable Service in the Franchise 
Area to obtain a franchise from the Grantor, then Grantee shall have the right to terminate this 
Franchise and operate the system under the terms and conditions established in applicable law.  If 
Grantee chooses to terminate this Franchise pursuant to this provision, this Franchise shall be 
deemed to have expired by its terms on the effective date of any such change in law, whether or 
not such law allows existing franchise agreements to continue until the date of expiration provided 
in any existing franchise. 
 
12 
 
14.7 
Notices.  Unless otherwise provided by federal, State or local law, all notices pursuant to 
this Franchise shall be in writing and shall be deemed to be sufficiently given upon delivery to a 
Person at the address set forth below, or by U.S. certified mail, return receipt requested, nationally 
or internationally recognized courier service such as Federal Express or electronic mail 
communication to the designated electronic mail address provided below.  As set forth above, 
notice served upon the Grantor shall be delivered or sent to: 
Grantor:  
Board of Josephine County Commissioners 
 
 
500 NW 6th St, Dept. 6 
Grants Pass, OR 97526 
    Email: 
bcc@co.josephine.or.us 
 
 
 
 
 
Grantee:  
Director, Government Affairs 
Charter Communications 
222 NE Park Plaza Drive, Suite 231 
Vancouver, WA 98684 
 
 
 
 
 
    Email:   
chris.madden@charter.com 
 
 
 
 
             Copy to:  
Charter Communications  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attn: Vice President, Government Affairs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
601 Massachusetts Ave NW, Suite 400W 
Washington, DC 20001 
 
14.8 
Public Notice.  Minimum public notice of any public meeting relating to this Franchise or 
any such grant of additional franchises, licenses, consents, certificates, authorizations, or 
exemptions by the Grantor to any other Person(s) to provide Cable Services, video services, or 
other television services utilizing any system or technology requiring use of the public rights of 
way shall be by publication at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the area at least 
ten (10) days prior to the meeting and a posting at the administrative buildings of the Grantor. 
14.8.1 
Grantor shall provide written notice to Grantee within ten (10) days of Grantor’s 
receipt from any other Person(s) of an application or request for a franchise(s), license(s), 
consent(s), certificate(s), authorization(s), or exemption(s) to provide Cable Services, video 
services, or other television services utilizing any system or technology requiring use of the public 
rights of way.  Any public hearings to consider such application or request shall have the same 
notice requirement as outlined in Paragraph 14.7 above. 
14.9 
Severability.  If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this 
Franchise is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, 
such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall 
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Franchise. 
14.10 Entire Agreement. This Franchise and any Exhibits hereto constitute the entire agreement 
between Grantee and the Grantor and they supersede all prior or contemporaneous agreements, 
representations or understandings (whether written or oral) of the parties regarding the subject 
matter hereof.   
 
13 
 
14.11  Administration of Franchise.  This Franchise is a contract and neither party may take 
any unilateral action that materially changes the mutual promises and covenants contained herein.  
Any changes, modifications or amendments to this Franchise must be made in writing, signed by 
the Grantor and the Grantee. Any determination by the Grantor regarding the interpretation or 
enforcement of this Franchise shall be subject to de novo judicial review.  
14.12 Effective Date.  The Franchise granted herein will take effect and be in full force from 
such date of acceptance by Grantee recorded on the signature page of this Franchise.  If any fee or 
grant that is passed through to Subscribers is required by this Franchise, such fee or grant shall go 
into effect sixty (60) days after the Effective Date of this Franchise. 
14.13 No Third Party Beneficiaries.  Nothing in this Franchise is intended to confer third-party 
beneficiary status on any person other than the parties to this Franchise to enforce the terms of this 
Franchise.
 
14 
 
Considered and approved this ___ day of ____________, 2026. 
 
 
Josephine County 
Board of Commissioners 
 
Signature: 
 
 
Name/Title: 
 
 
Signature: 
 
 
Name/Title: 
 
 
Signature: 
 
 
Name/Title: 
 
 
 
Accepted this ___ day of __________________, 2026, subject to applicable federal and 
State law. 
 
 
Spectrum Pacific West, LLC 
By:  Charter Communications, Inc., Its Manager 
 
 
Signature: 
 
 
Name/Title: 
 
 
 
 
Order 2026-020 
 
 
Page 1 of 1 
 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR JOSEPHINE COUNTY 
 
STATE OF OREGON 
 
In the Matter of Suspending the Acceptance  
) 
Of Applications for Mineral Exploration  
 
) 
Order 2026-020 
Permits and Mining Leases  
 
 
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, on February 19th, 2025, by Board Order 2025-012, the Board of County 
Commissioners suspended the acceptance and processing of applications for mineral 
exploration permits, mining leases, and mining permits for a period of one year, and  
 
WHEREAS, the Board of County Commissioners intends to update Chapter 5.15 of the 
Josephine County Code which pertains to mining; and 
 
WHEREAS, the consideration and approval of mineral exploration permits and mining leases 
costs public resources including staff time and consulting fees; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Forestry Program should focus entirely on preparing and offering timber for sale 
as a steady and reliable source of revenue for the County; now therefore 
 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that the acceptance and processing of applications for mineral 
exploration permits, mining leases, and mining permits suspension shall continue, effective 
February 20th, 2026. 
 
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that any applications that are currently pending are to be returned 
to the applicant along with a full refund of money paid by the applicant to the County. 
 
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this suspension will remain in effect until July 8th, 2026, unless 
it is revoked or extended by a formal act of the Board of Commissioners. 
 
 
DONE and DATED this ____ day of April, 2026, nunc pro tunc February 20, 2026. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JOSEPHINE COUNTY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ron Smith, Chair 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
____________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coleen Martin, Vice-Chair 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
____________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gary Richardson, Commissioner 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 6a
We have prepared a quote for you
Object First 432TB with 3 years support
QUOTE # JC014629 V1
PREPARED FOR
Josephine County IT
PREPARED BY
Jeff Cook
Xiologix
8215 SW Tualatin-Sherwood Rd, Ste 200
Tualatin, OR 97062
5036914364
www.xiologix.com
Item 6b
5036914364
jcook@xiologix.com
www.xiologix.com
Backup Storage
Qty
Product Details
MSRP
Sell
Total
Object First Ootbi appliance with:
- 432TB usable capacity
- 2GB/s ingest speed
- 2x25G SFP+ ports
- 2U rack space
- 3 Years NBD Support
1
432TB Unit Standard Service and Support 3 YR
NBD HW Service and 3 YR 24x365 support
$135,995.00
$106,853.21
$106,853.21
Subtotal:
$106,853.21
Services
Description
Price
Qty
Ext. Price
XIOLOGIX Professional Services - On site
- Installation and configuration of Object First appliance.
- Connection of Ootbi to Veeam.
- Configure backup copy jobs to Ootbi.
XIO-PS
XIOLOGIX Professional Services - On-Site
$4,000.00
1
$4,000.00
Subtotal:
$4,000.00
Page: 2 of 3
Quote#JC014629 v1
5036914364
jcook@xiologix.com
www.xiologix.com
Object First 432TB with 3 years support
Prepared by:
Prepared for:
Quote Information:
Xiologix
Josephine County IT
Quote #: JC014629
Jeff Cook
(503) 691-4364 ext. 272
Fax 503-6129260
jcook@xiologix.com
500 NW 6th Street., Dept 7
Grants Pass, OR  97526
Ken Clever
(541) 474-5232
kclever@co.josephine.or.us
Version: 1
Delivery Date: 04/01/2026
Expiration Date: 04/17/2026
Quote Summary
Description
Amount
Backup Storage
$106,853.21
Services
$4,000.00
Total:
$110,853.21
Payment Options
Description
Payments
Interval
Amount
Term Options
NET30
1
One-Time
$110,853.21
Due to ongoing cost fluctuations tied to tariffs, effective immediately,  all quotes from Xiologix will align with the manufacturer's
pricing, which are subject to price changes based on the day the order is placed and shipped.
Additional tariff-related fees will be passed along to you, as the end user. This change enables us to uphold accurate and up-to-
date pricing in response to rapid shifts from our suppliers.
Taxes, shipping, handling and other fees may apply.
We reserve the right to cancel orders arising from pricing or other errors.
Xiologix
Josephine County IT
Signature:
Name:
Jeff Cook
Title:
Director of Enterprise Sales
Date:
04/01/2026
Signature:
Name:
Ken Clever
Date:
Page: 3 of 3
Quote#JC014629 v1
Item 6c
Item 6d