Forest Dwelling
APPEAL
APPEAL INFORMATION
Appellant: 
Dan Amos
Owner: 
Sandra Sela
 
Statement of Appeal: Appellant objects to the Director’s decision to deny a Forest 
Dwelling located on the subject property. See Appellant’s appeal 
application attached as Exhibit A. 
Legal: 
 
       37-05-01 TL 510
Location: 
1569 Savage Creek Rd
Zone: 
Woodlot Resource (WR)
150 Day Time Limit: 
January 31, 2026 
APPEAL BACKGROUND
• A pre-application for a Forest Dwelling was issued on September 
4, 2024.
• The application was submitted on June 20, 2025.
• Application was deemed incomplete on July 18, 2025.
• Application was deemed  complete on September 3, 2025. 
APPEAL BACKGROUND (cont.)
• The Director’s issued a decision, dated December 1, 2025, denying the 
proposed Forest Dwelling on the basis that the subject parcel is part of a larger 
tract under common ownership and the tract already includes existing dwellings. 
As such, an additional dwelling on the subject property is prohibited. (Exhibit 
E).
•  The Notice of Decision was mailed out on December 9, 2025. 
•
Staff notes the appeal period was extended to February 20, 2026, due to the 
lack of a seated Board (Exhibit F). 
•
An appeal hearing was initially scheduled for February 23, 2026, however it 
was canceled on February 19, 2026, due to continued lack of a seated Board. 
•
On February 16, 2026, legal counsel communicated with the applicant who 
verbally agreed to reschedule the hearing. The appeal hearing was 
rescheduled for a hearing on May 4, 2026.
REVIEW
• The Board of County Commissioners (hereafter BCC) must 
determine if the application complies with the criteria listed in 
order to determine a Forest Dwelling approval.
Given this hearing is de novo (new), the Board now has the task 
to decide if the application meets the standards and criteria. 
The Board may agree, disagree, or alter the findings as needed 
after receiving testimony during the hearing. The Board may 
change, add, and delete any conditions listed in the decision if 
the application is approved. If the application is denied, the 
Board must make clear findings as such. 
• During review of the application, staff evaluated the proposal 
under the amendments to the Josephine County Code (JCC) 
adopted on January 9, 2024. Under those provisions, a new 
dwelling cannot be approved if the subject property was part of 
a tract as of January 1, 2019, and remains part of that tract. The 
record demonstrates that the subject property was part of a 
tract on January 1, 2019, and remains part of that tract. 
Dwellings exist on the two other parcels comprising the tract. 
The applicable code requires that no dwelling existed on the 
tract as of January 1, 2019, and that no dwelling exists or has 
been approved on any other lot or parcel that was part of the 
tract. The JCC defines a “tract” as one or more contiguous lots 
or parcels under the same ownership.
REVIEW (cont.)
ZONING MAP
• Furthermore, to confirm this interpretation, staff contacted the 
Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development 
(DLCD) 
via 
email. 
DLCD’s 
response 
confirms 
staff’s 
interpretation and references the alternative forestland dwelling 
criteria in ORS 215.750, is included as Exhibit G.
• The appellant’s application challenges the Director’s findings. 
(Exhibit A). 
• If the Board approves the Forest Dwelling application, staff 
provides conditions of approval for consideration in Exhibit L. 
REVIEW (cont.)
This application is subject to Section 19.65.060 – General Criteria for 
New Dwellings; Section 19.64.070.C – Dwellings in Forest Zones; 
Section 19.65.080 – Siting Standards; Chapter 19.76 – Wildfire & 
Emergency Safety Standards; Chapter 19.65.100.B – Property 
Development Standards. 
ORDINANCE REVIEW
C. 
A proposed dwelling is not allowed if the tract upon which the dwelling will be sited 
already includes a dwelling.
 
Finding: Planning and Assessor records confirm that there is no dwelling on the 
 
subject parcel itself. However, two other parcels under the same ownership (which 
together form the tract) each contain an existing dwelling. Because the tract already 
includes dwellings, a new dwelling on the subject parcel is prohibited under this 
criterion.
G. 
A deed restriction shall be executed and recorded as required by Section 19.65.070.F that 
encumbers all other lots or parcels that comprise the tract used to meet the template test.
 
 
Finding: The two contiguous parcels—Tax Lot 506 and Tax Lot 500—are under the same 
ownership as the subject parcel and are already developed with existing dwellings. Because 
these parcels contain dwellings, they cannot be encumbered by the deed restriction required 
under Section 19.65.070.F.
Section 19.65.070.C - Dwellings in 
Forest Zones (Template Test)
I. 
A proposed “template” dwelling under this rule is allowed only if:
 
 
1. It will comply with the requirements of an acknowledged comprehensive plan, 
acknowledged land use regulations, and other provisions of law; and
 
 
Finding: The proposal has been reviewed for compliance with the applicable 
provisions of the County’s acknowledged Comprehensive Plan, the Josephine 
County Code, and relevant state law. As discussed in the findings the application 
does not meet all the criteria required for approval of a Forest Dwelling. Therefore, 
the proposal cannot be found to be consistent with this provision.
 
Section 19.65.070.C - Dwellings in 
Forest Zones (Template Test)
3. No dwellings are allowed on other lots or parcels that make up the tract and deed restrictions 
established under section 19.65.070.B for the other lots or parcels that make up the tract are met; and
 
 
7. If the lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited was part of a tract on January 1, 2019, no 
dwelling existed on the tract on that date, and no dwelling exists or has been approved on another lot or 
parcel that was part of the tract.
 
 
 
Finding: The subject parcel is part of a larger tract under the same ownership. The contiguous 
lots (Tax Lots 506 and 500) while legally separate, are considered part of the same tract 
and are already developed with existing dwellings prior to January 1, 2019. Because 
these properties collectively make up a tract and the other parcels contain dwellings, the 
subject property could not qualify for or be approved for the Forest Template test. 
 
Section 19.65.070.C - Dwellings in 
Forest Zones (Template Test)
REVIEW
• Given that the hearing is de novo (new), the Board now 
has the task to decide if the application meets the criteria. 
The Board may agree, disagree, or alter the findings as 
needed after receiving testimony during the hearing. The 
Board may change, add, and delete any conditions listed 
in the decision if the application is approved.  If the 
application is denied, the Board must make clear findings 
as such.  
REVIEW (cont.)
• The Board shall review the appeal application, additional 
material as well as the original decision (Exhibit E) and 
determine if the Criteria listed has been satisfied or can be 
adequately satisfied through conditions of approval. 
• Note: If the Board approves the Forest Dwelling, staff 
provides conditions of approval for consideration in Exhibit 
L. 
QUESTIONS?