WORKER HEALTH AND SAFETY
FACT SHEET
Salem Central Office
350 Winter St. NE
Salem, OR 97301-3882
Phone: 503-378-3272
Toll-free: 800-922-2689
Fax: 503-947-7461
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key requirements: Oregon OSHA’s
permanent rules for heat illness prevention 
On May 9, 2022, Oregon adopted two permanent rules – 437-002-0156 and 437-004-1131 – 
following direction from Oregon Gov. Kate Brown to protect workers from heat-related illnesses. 
The rules’ key requirements are identical and apply to 
any workplace where extreme heat caused by weather 
can expose workers to heat-related illnesses – medical 
conditions resulting from the body’s inability to cope 
with a particular heat load; 437-004-1131 applies to 
agricultural workplaces and 437-002-0156 applies to all 
other workplaces. The rules do not apply to buildings and 
structures that have mechanical ventilation that keep the 
indoor heat index less than 80 degrees Fahrenheit. 
The key requirements are based on a set of numbers 
called the heat index – sometimes called the apparent 
temperature – published by the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration’s National Weather Service. 
There is a direct relationship between air temperature 
and relative humidity; the heat index indicates what the 
temperature feels like to the human body when relative 
humidity and the air temperature are combined. 
Oregon OSHA’s rules for preventing heat illnesses 
apply to workplaces whenever an employee is working 
and the heat index equals or exceeds 80 degrees 
Fahrenheit. More requirements apply (see High heat 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
practices, below) when the heat index exceeds 90 
degrees Fahrenheit. 
KEY REQUIREMENTS: OREGON OSHA’S PERMANENT RULES FOR HEAT ILLNESS PREVENTION
Salem Central Office
350 Winter St. NE
Salem, OR 97301-3882
Phone: 503-378-3272
Toll-free: 800-922-2689
Fax: 503-947-7461
Exemptions – There are both full and partial 
exemptions in the rules 
Full exemptions: Incidental heat exposures, 
exposures to heat generated from the work process, 
emergency operations, and buildings and structures 
that have a mechanical ventilation system that keeps 
the heat index below 80 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Partial exemptions: Employers whose employees 
perform either “rest” or “light” workloads, associated 
support activities for wildland firefighters, and 
employees who work from home. 
KEY REQUIREMENTS 
Access to shade 
Establish one or more shade areas when the heat 
index equals or exceeds 80 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Shade may be provided by natural or artificial means 
that do not expose employees to unsafe or unhealthy 
conditions and that do not discourage access or use. 
Those performing “rest” or light” work, as defined 
by the rules, are exempt from the provisions for 
shade when the heat index is less than 90 degrees 
Fahrenheit. Shade must: 
Ī Be open to the air or have mechanical ventilation 
for cooling. 
Ī Be located as close as practical to the areas where 
employees are working. 
Ī Accommodate at least the number of employees 
on recovery, rest, or meal periods so they have 
room to sit. 
When an employee’s access to shade is not possible in 
a particular situation – during high winds or when an 
employee is walking through range land, for example 
– the employer must identify and implement cooling
measures that provide equivalent protection to shade.
Drinking water 
Other rules require water to be provided at all times, 
but the specific requirements for these rules are 
described below. 
Ī Enough drinking water must be available so that 
each employee can consume 32 ounces per hour. 
Ī Drinking water must be cool (66 to 77 degrees 
Fahrenheit) or cold (35 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit). 
Ī Drinking water packaged as a consumer product 
and electrolyte-replenishing drinks that do not 
contain cafeine – sports drinks, for example – are 
acceptable substitutes, but should not completely 
replace the required water. 
Employers are not required to supply the entire 
quantity of drinking water for employees at the 
beginning of a shift; employers may begin the 
shift with smaller quantities of water if they have a 
procedure that ensures any water consumed during 
the shift will be replaced. 
Those performing “rest” or light” work, as defined by the 
rules, are exempt from the specific quantities of water 
when the heat index is less than 90 degrees Fahrenheit -
but still required in other Oregon OSHA provisions. 
Supervisor and employee annual training 
Employers must ensure that all employees – including 
new, supervisory, and nonsupervisory employees 
– are trained annually in the following topics, in a 
language they can readily understand, before they 
begin work at sites where the heat index will be 80 
degrees Fahrenheit or higher:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ī The environmental and personal risk factors 
for heat illness, including the extra burden of 
heat caused by exertion, clothing, and personal 
protective equipment. 
KEY REQUIREMENTS: OREGON OSHA’S PERMANENT RULES FOR HEAT ILLNESS PREVENTION
Salem Central Office
350 Winter St. NE
Salem, OR 97301-3882
Phone: 503-378-3272
Toll-free: 800-922-2689
Fax: 503-947-7461
Ī The procedures for complying with the 
requirements of this standard, including the 
employer’s responsibility to provide water, daily 
heat index information, shade, cool-down rests, 
how to report symptoms of heat-related illness, 
and access to first aid, as well as the employees’ 
right to exercise their rights under this standard 
without fear of retaliation. 
Ī How to adapt to working in a hot environment. 
Ī The importance of employees immediately 
reporting symptoms or signs of heat illness – in 
co-workers or themselves. 
Ī The efects of nonjob factors – such as 
medications, alcohol, and obesity – on tolerance 
to heat stress. 
Ī The main types of heat-related illnesses – heat 
cramps, heat exhaustion, heat syncope, and heat 
stroke – and their signs and symptoms. 
Ī The importance of frequent consumption of small 
quantities of water, up to 32 ounces per hour. 
Those performing “rest” or light” work, as defined by 
the rules, are exempt from the training requirements 
when the heat index is less than 90 degrees Fahrenheit. 
High heat practices 
When the heat index exceeds 90 degrees Fahrenheit, 
employers must implement the following additional 
high heat practices: 
Ī Ensure that efective communication by voice, 
observation, or electronic means is maintained so 
that employees working at the site can contact a 
supervisor when necessary. Cellphones and text 
messaging may be used for this purpose only if 
reception in the area is reliable. 
Ī Ensure that employees are monitored for signs 
of heat illness, and whether medical attention is 
necessary, using one or more of the following: 
¹ Regular communication with employees 
working alone – by radio, cellphone, or other 
alternative means. 
¹ A mandatory buddy system. 
¹ Other equally efective means of observation 
or communication 
Ī Designate and equip one or more employees at 
each site who can call for emergency medical 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY REQUIREMENTS: OREGON OSHA’S PERMANENT RULES FOR HEAT ILLNESS PREVENTION
Salem Central Office
350 Winter St. NE
Salem, OR 97301-3882
Phone: 503-378-3272
Toll-free: 800-922-2689
Fax: 503-947-7461
services and allow other employees to call for 
emergency services when designated employees 
are not immediately available. 
Ī Ensure that each employee takes heat illness 
prevention rest breaks, based upon one of the 
three options in the rules, regardless of the length 
of the shift. 
¹ The rest break can take place with any other 
meal or rest period required by policy, rule, or 
law if the timing of the break coincides with the 
required meal or rest period. 
¹ The preventive cool-down rest break is a 
work assignment. 
Emergency medical plan 
When the ambient temperature at a site exceeds the 
heat index of 80 degrees Fahrenheit, employers must 
implement an emergency medical plan that complies 
with 437-002-0161, Medical and first aid (agricultural 
employers must implement, per 437-004-1305(4)), and 
includes procedures for: 
Ī Responding to employees’ signs and symptoms 
of possible heat illness, including the use of 
first aid and how emergency medical services 
will be provided. If a supervisor observes or an 
employee reports signs or symptoms of heat 
illness, the supervisor must take immediate action 
appropriate to the severity of the illness. 
¹ If a supervisor observes signs or an employee 
reports symptoms of heat illness, the employee 
must be relieved from duty and provided with a 
means to reduce body temperature. 
¹ If the signs or symptoms indicate severe heat 
illness – such as decreased consciousness, 
staggering, vomiting, disorientation, irrational 
behavior, or convulsions – immediately 
implement the emergency response procedures. 
¹ An employee exhibiting signs or symptoms 
of heat illness must be monitored and must 
not be left alone or sent home without being 
ofered on-site first aid or provided with 
emergency medical services. 
Ī Contacting emergency medical services and, 
if instructed to do so by medical professionals, 
transporting employees to a place where they can 
be reached by an emergency medical provider. 
Ī Ensuring that clear and precise directions to the 
site are provided to emergency responders so they 
can quickly find the afected employee. 
Acclimatization 
Employers must develop efective acclimatization 
practices that allow employees to gradually adapt to 
working at sites where the ambient temperature heat 
exceeds the heat index of 80 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Employers may either develop their own acclimatization 
plan or follow guidance from the National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). 
More heat-related illness resources can be found at 
osha.oregon.gov/pages/topics/heat-stress.aspx 
WORKERS 
Your employer cannot retaliate 
against you for reporting any 
workplace health or safety concern 
or violation, for more information 
on your rights visit Oregon OSHA. 
Visit Oregon OSHA 
KEY REQUIREMENTS: OREGON OSHA’S PERMANENT RULES FOR HEAT ILLNESS PREVENTION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
osha.oregon.gov 
OR-OSHA (10/23) FS-91 
Key requirements: Oregon OSHA’s 
permanent rules for protection from 
wildfire smoke — revised May 2024
Oregon OSHA’s adopted permanent rules – OAR 437-
002-1081 and OAR 437-004-9791, Protection from 
Wildfire Smoke – apply to employers whose employees 
are or will be exposed to hazardous levels of wildfire 
smoke. In May 2024, the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) updated how it calculates and reports 
Air Quality Index (AQI) values. The requirements based 
on PM2.5 concentrations in the Oregon OSHA wildfire 
smoke rules are not changing. The updated AQI system 
does not increase worker exposure to wildfire smoke or 
the threshold levels of Oregon OSHA’s rules, which are 
measured in micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m3) of 
particulate matter (PM) 2.5. The conversion between the 
previous AQI, the new AQI, and where the rule is triggered 
is provided on the next page of this fact sheet.
With large-scale wildfire events across the western 
United States becoming more frequent, wildfire smoke 
is an increasing danger to Oregon workers. The harmful 
chemicals and tiny particles suspended in wildfire smoke 
can make anyone sick. The tiny particles of most concern 
and addressed in these standards is the particulate 
matter with a diameter in micrometers of 2.5 or less, 
commonly referred to as PM2.5. 
Mild symptoms of wildfire smoke exposure include 
coughing, runny nose, and eye irritation and inflammation, 
while more serious health effects include trouble 
breathing, asthma attacks, reduced lung function, chest 
pain, and heart attacks.
Although OAR 437-004-9791 applies only to agricultural 
employers, its key requirements and exemptions are 
identical to OAR 437-002-1081, which applies for all other 
employers such as general industry, construction, and 
forest activities. 
These standards do not apply to the following: 
	
Ī Enclosed buildings, structures, and vehicles in 
which air is filtered by a mechanical ventilation 
system, and when exterior openings are kept 
closed except when it is necessary to briefly open 
doors to enter or exit
	
Ī Employers that have predetermined to suspend 
operations to prevent employee exposure to 
wildfire smoke levels for PM2.5 at or above 
35.5 µg/m3 (AQI 101)
	
Ī Employees working at home
The following activities and operations are partially 
exempt from the standards:
	
Ī Wildland firefighting and associated support 
activities such as fire camp services and fire 
management
	
Ī Evacuation, rescue, utilities, communications, and 
medical operations directly involved in or aiding 
emergency operations or firefighting operations
	
Ī Work activities involving only intermittent employee 
exposure of less than 15 minutes in an hour to 
wildfire smoke levels for PM2.5 at or above 
35.5 µg/m3 (AQI 101), for a total exposure of less 
than one hour in a single 24-hour period
WORKER HEALTH AND SAFETY
FACT SHEET
Salem Central Office
350 Winter St. NE
Salem, OR 97301-3882
Phone: 503-378-3272
Toll-free: 800-922-2689
Fax: 503-947-7461
Employers with employees who are exposed to 
wildfire smoke levels for PM2.5 at or above 35.5 µg/m3 
(AQI 101) only when engaged in a partially exempt 
activity or operation listed above, are required to 
provide information and training only on elements 
in subsection (4)(a) through (4)(g) in the standards, 
in addition to providing National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved 
filtering facepiece respirators for voluntary use. 
DESCRIPTION OF EACH KEY 
REQUIREMENT (1-7):
1. Assess and monitor air quality at each work 
location where employees are exposed
The level of wildfire smoke at work locations that 
triggers these standards is when the PM2.5 ambient 
Previous AQI values 
New AQI values
(effective May 2024)
Wildfire Smoke standards’ key requirements for exposure level using 
new AQI values
101 - 250
101 - 276
1.	
Assess and monitor air quality at each work location where 
employees are exposed
2.	
Provide and document employee training
3.	
Implement two-way communication system
4.	
Implement engineering and administrative controls
5.	
Provide NIOSH-approved filtering facepiece respirators for 
voluntary use
 251 - 500
277 - 848
	
Follow steps 1-4 above; and
6.	
Provide NIOSH-approved filtering facepiece respirators 
for mandatory use by implementing a Wildfire Smoke 
Respiratory Protection Program in accordance with 
Appendix A, in the Protection from Wildfire Smoke standards
501 and above
849 and above
	
Follow steps 1-4 above; and
7.	
Provide NIOSH-approved respirators for mandatory use 
by implementing a Respiratory Protection Program in 
accordance with 29 CFR 1910.134 or OAR 437-004-1041
KEY REQUIREMENTS: OREGON OSHA’S PERMANENT RULES FOR PROTECTION FROM WILDFIRE SMOKE
The Technical Section of Oregon OSHA produced this fact sheet to highlight health and safety 
programs and rules. The information is intended to supplement the rules and provide best practices 
to employers.
air concentration equals or exceeds 35.5 µg/m3, which 
is equivalent to an AQI for PM2.5 of 101 or greater. 
The AQI was developed by the EPA as an indicator 
of overall air quality for the general population, and is 
largely and easily accessible by the public. When work 
locations are affected by wildfire smoke, employers 
and employees with internet access can determine air 
quality conditions by checking the current average AQI 
value for PM2.5 for their geographical area by using the 
following websites or apps:
	
Ī Oregon DEQ website: https://aqi.oregon.gov/
	
Ī OregonAir (DEQ) app: Search for “OregonAir” in 
your mobile app store (free)
	
Ī U.S. EPA AirNow Fire and Smoke Map website: 
https://fire.airnow.gov/
	
Ī U.S. EPA AirNow app: Search for “EPA AirNow” in 
your app store (free)
Additionally, employers can choose to directly measure 
workplace ambient air concentration for PM2.5 by 
purchasing and using a calibrated measuring device for 
PM2.5 and following the manufacturer’s instructions. 
This method will provide the most accurate level of 
PM2.5, especially for indoor workplaces where the air is 
not filtered by mechanical ventilation.  
For employers that have determined and can 
demonstrate that none of the methods listed above 
are available for their work location, a method 
known as the 5-3-1 Visibility Index can be used to 
estimate the current air concentration for PM2.5, and 
equivalent AQI value, as shown below:
New AQI values
(effective May 2024)
Visibility Index Values
(How far you can see)
0 – 50 
over 15 miles
51 – 100 
5 – 15 miles
101 – 150 
3 – 5 miles
151 – 200 
1 – 3 miles
201 – 277 – 300 
1 mile
301 – 849 and higher
less than 1 mile
Rule exposure thresholds and visibility distances 
highlighted in red.
Photos above are from the United States Forest Service’s InciWeb – Incident Information System, at inciweb.nwcg.gov
VISIBILITY DISTANCES:
less than 1 mile
1.5-2.75 miles
3-5 miles
KEY REQUIREMENTS: OREGON OSHA’S PERMANENT RULES FOR PROTECTION FROM WILDFIRE SMOKE
The Technical Section of Oregon OSHA produced this fact sheet to highlight health and safety 
programs and rules. The information is intended to supplement the rules and provide best practices 
to employers.
2. Provide and document employee training
Training must be provided to employees in a manner and 
a language they readily understand and must include:
A.	The symptoms of wildfire smoke exposure, including:
	
Ī Eyes: burning sensations, redness, and 
tearing of the eyes caused by irritation and 
inflammation that can temporarily impair vision
	
Ī Respiratory system: runny nose, sore throat, 
cough, difficulty breathing, sinus irritation, 
wheezing, and shortness of breath
	
Ī Fatigue, headache, irregular heartbeat, and 
chest pain
B.	The potential acute and chronic health effects 
from wildfire smoke exposure, including increased 
health risks to sensitive groups, and how chronic 
exposures can increase the risk of cardiovascular 
disease and can exacerbate asthma.
C.	Each employee’s right to report health issues 
related to wildfire smoke exposure and obtain 
medical treatment for such workplace exposures 
without fear of retaliation.
D.	How employees can obtain the current average and 
forecasted ambient air concentration for PM2.5 and 
equivalent AQI value for their work location.
E.	 The importance, limitations, and benefits of using 
a filtering facepiece respirator, which is provided 
by the employer at no cost to the employee to 
reduce exposure to wildfire smoke, and how to use 
and maintain their filtering facepiece respirator.
F.	 The employer’s methods to protect employees 
from wildfire smoke, including how filtering 
facepiece respirators are required to be made 
readily accessible to employees for voluntary use, 
and how employees can obtain such respirators 
before exposure and replace them when needed.
G.	Review of any job tasks performed by employees 
in which the use of a filtering facepiece respirator 
would expose the wearer to a hazard associated 
with a substantially more serious injury or illness 
than the potential acute health effects of wildfire 
smoke exposure.
KEY REQUIREMENTS: OREGON OSHA’S PERMANENT RULES FOR PROTECTION FROM WILDFIRE SMOKE
The Technical Section of Oregon OSHA produced this fact sheet to highlight health and safety 
programs and rules. The information is intended to supplement the rules and provide best practices 
to employers.
H.	The procedures supervisors must follow when an 
employee reports or exhibits health symptoms 
that necessitate immediate medical attention, 
including, but not limited to, asthma attacks, 
difficulty breathing, and chest pain. 
I.	 How to operate and interpret exposure results 
based on any PM2.5 monitoring device used by 
the employer in compliance with the standard.
J.	 An explanation of the employer’s two-way 
communication system for wildfire smoke 
exposure control information.
Training elements (a) through (e) above are included 
in Oregon OSHA’s wildfire smoke training course that 
is available to all employers and employees in both 
English and Spanish.
Employers that are not partially exempt from the 
standard must verify supervisor and employee 
training by preparing a written or electronic record 
that includes at least the name or identification 
number of each employee trained, the dates of the 
trainings, and the name of the people who conducted 
the training. The most recent annual training record 
for each employee must be maintained for one year.
3. Implement two-way communication system
A two-way communication system must be used to 
communicate wildfire smoke information between 
supervisors and employees. Such information 
includes any changes in the air quality at the work 
location that would necessitate an increase or 
decrease in the level of exposure controls. The two-
way communication must also allow employees to 
report issues concerning their access to exposure 
controls and any health symptoms from wildfire 
smoke exposure that could necessitate medical 
attention. The means to communicate information 
may include, but are not limited to, in-person, cell 
phone, and two-way radio. 
4. Implement engineering and administrative 
controls to employees exposed to PM2.5 levels 
at or above 35.5 µg/m3 (AQI 101)
Engineering and administrative controls that are 
functionally possible and would not prevent the 
completion of work must be used to reduce employee 
exposure to wildfire smoke. Such controls include 
relocating outdoor workers to enclosed buildings or to 
outdoor locations where the air quality is better, and 
making work schedule changes to reduce employee 
exposures. The use of engineering and administrative 
controls may be used in combination with NIOSH-
approved filtering facepiece respirators.
KEY REQUIREMENTS: OREGON OSHA’S PERMANENT RULES FOR PROTECTION FROM WILDFIRE SMOKE
The Technical Section of Oregon OSHA produced this fact sheet to highlight health and safety 
programs and rules. The information is intended to supplement the rules and provide best practices 
to employers.
5. Provide NIOSH-approved filtering facepiece 
respirators for voluntary use to employees exposed 
to PM2.5 levels at or above 35.5 µg/m3 (AQI 101)
Employer-provided respirators for voluntary protection 
from wildfire smoke must either be distributed directly 
to employees or be made readily accessible to any 
exposed employee at each work location. Respirator 
supplies must be in a location that does not restrict 
or hinder employee access nor discourage the 
replacement of a respirator when needed. NIOSH-
approved filtering facepiece respirators do not include 
any “KN” designations, such as KN95s. Such “KN” 
respirators are not appropriate to reduce employee 
exposure to wildfire smoke. NIOSH-approved filtering 
facepiece respirators appropriate for wildfire smoke 
protection include: N95, N99, N100, R95, R99, R100, 
P95, P99, and P100.
6. Provide NIOSH-approved filtering facepiece 
respirators for mandatory use to employees 
exposed to PM2.5 levels at or above 200.9 
µg/m3 (AQI 277) by implementing a Wildfire 
Smoke Respiratory Protection Program in 
accordance with Appendix A of the Protection 
from Wildfire Smoke standards 
Employer-provided NIOSH-approved filtering 
facepiece respirators used strictly for mandatory 
protection from wildfire smoke must either follow 
the Wildfire Smoke Respiratory Protection Program 
as described in Appendix A, which do not require 
medical evaluations and fit testing, or be in 
accordance with the applicable Respiratory Protection 
standard, 29 CFR 1910.134 or OAR 437-004-1041. 
7. Provide NIOSH-approved respirators for 
mandatory use to employees exposed to PM2.5 
levels at or above 500.4 µg/m3 (AQI 849) by 
implementing a Respiratory Protection Program 
in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.134 or OAR 
437-004-1041 
Due to the high hazard level of air quality conditions 
at or above 500.4 µg/m3 (AQI 849), employers must 
ensure that employees wear appropriate NIOSH-
approved respirators in accordance with the 
applicable Respiratory Protection Standard, 29 CFR 
1910.134 or OAR 437-004-1041.  
WORKERS
Your employer cannot retaliate 
against you for reporting any 
workplace health or safety concern 
or violation. For more information 
on your rights, visit Oregon OSHA.
Visit Oregon OSHA
KEY REQUIREMENTS: OREGON OSHA’S PERMANENT RULES FOR PROTECTION FROM WILDFIRE SMOKE
osha.oregon.gov
OR-OSHA (05/24) FS-92